We've seen perpetual market strength.
>> The eyes continue to be on earnings.
>> This is an earnings momentum driven
market.
>> It will continue to be an equity story
as we go forward. Things are about as
good as they've been in a really long
time. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, holding on. President
Trump claiming the Iranian ceasefire is
on life support as investors are gearing
up for a headline inflation number
closer to 4%. Republicans are beginning
a push to suspend the federal gas tax in
effort to counter rising prices at the
pump.
>> Consumer prices are starting to become a
problem for both politicians and
frankly, on the margins for bond
markets. That will be highlighted by
today's CPI report heading into
tomorrow's PPI [music] report. And of
course, we do have a bond auction, $42
billion
of 10-year notes at the same time. From
the political point of view, you have a
question of how you can ameliorate some
of the costs, whether it's the gas tax
holiday, whether it's taking on the SPR.
In the bond market space, a real
question about how sticky this inflation
will be because of proposals coming from
the other side, the fiscal side.
>> Welcome to Washington, Kevin Warsh. Step
right up. We talked about this a few
times already this week. Unemployment
closer to four, headline inflation
getting closer to four. [music] You've
got core CPI closer to three than two,
and a Fed maintaining an easing bias.
That's a tough meeting in June to walk
into. [music] It's one where he
potentially has a path to stay on hold,
but how do you reconcile some of the
calls from President Trump to lower
[music] interest rates with the idea
that inflation expectations are creeping
higher. And there's a warning shot
coming from the United Kingdom,
>> [music]
>> given the fact that we're seeing right
now
spreads or at least yields on 30-year
gilts going to almost 6%. We're talking
about 5.8% [music] for the first time
going back to 1998. This is a warning
shot for the United States. If you have
a situation where the fiscal outlook
looks somewhat like it's not mathing,
then the bond market will respond, and
that is going to be a concern for any
Fed chair that steps into this
particular
>> Right now might feel like a stretch to
compare this situation to the UK. Do you
want to talk about the UK right now?
>> UK's fascinating.
>> A GDP close to 1% nowhere near the kind
of growth we've got [music] in America.
A Bank of England that may have to hike
interest rates soon. And as you
indicate, a 30-year yield at the highest
level we've seen going back to 1998. We
have [music] seen prime minister after
prime minister, and this prime minister
is struggling to hold on. This isn't a
Liz Truss moment. This is a political
and financial reality right now for the
United Kingdom.
I do think it's fair to keep asking how
much is this a warning shot for other
developed market economies [music]
that are facing off with fiscal deficits
that are pretty big and a question of
how long they could sustain growth given
the fact that on the margins they're
kind of tapping the fiscal the fiscal
pumps a a little bit too much. At the
same time [music] it is a situation unto
itself, and ultimately whether Keir
Starmer stays or whether he's go whether
he goes, bond traders seem to be
suggesting that there has been no plan
that's [music] been put out there that
has been fiscally sustainable, and they
are pushing back. There's a fear about
what comes next. Here's the pushback up
10 basis points this morning. The
10-year through 5% on 10s in the UK.
30s, to Brahma's point, approaching six.
You want some fun and games, let's talk
about the Kospi in South Korea.
Overnight at one point, down as much as
5% before trimming those losses.
>> [music]
>> Comments
by a presidential policy chief
suggesting the nation should pay
citizens a dividend using taxes on AI
profits. He walked that back a little
bit and clarified those comments, but
that was a bit of a shock overnight, and
I wonder if that's a taste of things to
come, not next year or the year after
that, but further down the line. I'm so
glad you went there. At a certain point,
increasingly people are concerned if
you're going to lose your job from AI,
you're going to want some sort of
benefit in the form of some sort of tax
refund or some sort of dividend
>> [music]
>> or citizen dividend as this particular
politician called it. Is it going to
come from specific taxes on AI names? Is
it going to come from the broad-based
taxes [music] that they're expecting to
be bigger because of a productivity
boom, which is how he walked it back?
Well, it remains to be seen.
Nonetheless, if you start seeing
unemployment creep higher,
>> [music]
>> is this a lever that some countries are
willing to pull?
>> Off the back of that story, Nasdaq
futures a little bit softer as well,
down this morning by [music] more than a
half of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Russ Koesterich BlackRock
as tech lifts stocks to new heights.
Katherine Thompson of the Cato Institute
with the US around ceasefire on life
support. And Greg Daco of EY as Wall
Street awaits key inflation data. We
begin this hour with stocks hovering
near all-time highs. Russ Koesterich of
BlackRock writing, "Markets have staged
a remarkable recovery led by tech.
Earnings can continue to carry the day
for US equities." Russ joins us now for
more. Russ, welcome to the program,
buddy. It's good to see you. What kind
of a rally do we have right now? The
kind of rally that sucks people in or
the kind of rally that begins to spit
people out?
Well, Jonathan, I think it's one that's
been sucking people in. Uh you had a
market that had uh was pretty
pessimistic back in March. And what
you've seen is in addition to the fact
that the economy's been resilient,
uh the labor market's been resilient,
first and foremost, earnings have been
remarkable. You've seen a significant
rise in earnings expectations really
since the beginning of hostilities back
at the end of February. And that is of
course been led by tech. And the numbers
are just off the charts. So, what you
have right now I think is an
earnings-driven market, not not driven
necessarily by multiple expansion, but
by investors looking at earnings,
particularly for industries like
semiconductors, and thinking, "You know
what? I don't want to miss this. I don't
want to be underweight uh given the
strength of the US corporate sector."
How much pushback are we beginning to
get from the bond market, Russ? How much
of a threat is beginning to brew in
fixed income? The repricing in rates.
Twos this morning close to four, 10s
through 440, 30's at five. How much of a
challenge is that?
I don't think it's an enormous challenge
right now. I mean, you've had a backup
in yields. Real 10-year yields are up by
about 25 basis points since the start of
the war. But the reality is the bond
yields are still relatively contained in
the United States. I know the story is
different elsewhere. You're talking
about the UK a few moments ago. And bond
market volatility is actually fairly
muted. So, there are parts of the market
that are definitely struggling with
higher yields. Housing-related stocks
are the probably the best example. But
for the broader market, particularly for
a lot of the large cap segment, where
debt levels are relatively modest, this
is not yet a headwind that's going to
derail the
the rally.
Russ, just to stick on this for one more
minute, how much are you starting to see
some of the net issuance for the
hyperscalers, for some of the semi
players, supersede or crowd out some of
the government debt sales that have to
come due as well?
Well, clearly we've seen a pretty
significant increase in the net issuance
by the hyperscalers. But again, the
reality is this is still a market with a
lot of cash on the sideline. This is a
market where people still looking to
build yield in their portfolio. So, the
notion that that issuance by itself
is going to derail the bond market, I
think right now that's not as much of a
threat. But again, I go back to what's
leading the market. Despite the increase
in debt levels among some of the tech
companies, the reality is we're still
seeing earnings growth that is over 30%.
And that's something that as long as the
debt levels remain manageable, I don't
think is going to prevent investors from
being the space, particularly when
they're driving the earnings. And here's
the telling statistic. Q1, uh tech is
responsible for 55%
of all earnings growth uh, for the
quarter. That's an astounding number.
And this again, is telling you why
people are rotating back into the space
after the so-called broad and out trade
that dominated in the end of 25 and
early 2026.
One of the key points that seems to be
underpinning the rally is the idea that
this economy is at greater risk of a
melt-up of inflation that it is some
sort of downturn. How much do you see
that as a rationale for why to continue
piling into some of these big tech
stocks even after the massive rally?
Because ultimately, yes, the earnings
are there, but also they're a hedge
against disintermediation of old
business models, they're a hedge against
inflation, and on the margins in the
near term, they're somewhat of a hedge
against the consumer cycle.
I I think that's exactly right. I think
this is one of the things that's
happened in addition to, you know,
investors looking at the earnings
numbers and being understandably
impressed, is that the narrative's
changed. And you think about what the
narrative was back in late 25, early 26,
it was one of above trend GDP. Okay? And
that theory supported, again, this broad
and out trade. And that included
European stocks, included cyclicals,
included small caps, included value. All
businesses and all companies or indices
with a lot of companies that would
benefit from a strong economy and
operating leverage. Now, the good news
is we still think the US economy is
doing well, but what's changed is maybe
an environment where rather than growing
at above trend, given some of the
headwinds from higher oil prices, higher
gas and higher rates, we might be
looking at an economy where the growth
rate is closer to trend. If that is the
narrative that investors are adopting,
then going back to secular growth, where
you can have these types of earnings
even without particularly strong
economic growth, I think that's one of
the the dynamics that have supported
this rotation back into growth and back
into tech. Russell, begs the question
how relevant some of the economic data
points actually are to the rally and the
performance of equities at 8:30 Eastern
time we get a CPI print. How important
is that to you?
I think it is important because what you
do have is an environment where
investors know inflation is going to be
above trend. The Fed knows that headline
inflation is going to be higher because
of the impact of oil, but there is still
going to be a scrutiny first of all of
how much is that leaking into the rest
of the inflation numbers, particularly
core inflation no matter how you measure
it. How is that affecting core services?
And again, if you have a narrative where
maybe the Fed is on hold, but they're
not hiking, clearly you want to see that
core inflation is remaining somewhat
contained. Russ, it's good to see you,
sir. As always, thanks for joining us
here at BlackRock. Thank you. How close
are we to a hike? We've gone through
some of the numbers, some of the
estimates a few times already. BNP, a
risk of a hike this year. PIMCO, you
mentioned Dan Iverson yesterday, Lisa,
risk of a hike this year. Morgan Stanley
have come on the program, Fed is done
for the year. Goldman Sachs, to your
point yesterday, pushing back their
call, I believe, now to December of this
year for that first cut. Things are
getting very finely balanced as to what
the Fed's going to do next. Politically,
it seems implausible that Kevin Warsh
will actually hike rates, and that's one
reason why a lot of people are not
penciling in a rate hike, but you are
seeing it in the Fed funds rates. You do
see some pushback in terms of just how
much this Fed may have to do. You put it
really well yesterday. How much is a
hold essentially the most hawkish thing
that this Fed can do? And ultimately, do
they need to have signaled some sort of
rate hike as a possibility in order to
job on the market into submission?
>> Redefining dovishness over at the
Federal Reserve. 30s this morning,
essentially at 5%, 10s at 4.43, near the
highs of the year, and 2s closing in on
4% as we count you down to that data
later this morning. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg Brief. Yahara standing by with
more. Hi, Yahara. Good morning, John.
President Trump saying the ceasefire
with Iran is on massive life support.
Trump rejecting Tehran's response
>> [music]
>> to the latest peace offer which demanded
lifting the US naval blockade, sanctions
relief, and control over the Strait of
Hormuz.
South Korea's Kospi index losing more
than $300 billion in value in just
[music] 97 minutes today. That sharp
sell-off coming after a South Korean
policymaker proposed taxing AI profits
to fund a citizen's dividend.
And UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer
telling [music] his cabinet he's staying
on as Prime Minister despite increasing
pressure to step down. Dozens of members
of Parliament calling [music] for
Starmer to set out his a timetable for
his departure. That's your Bloomberg
Brief, John. Yeah, Hana, thank you. More
from Hana later this hour. Up next on
the program, a ceasefire on life
support.
A ceasefire is on massive life support
where the doctor walks in and says,
"Sir, your loved one has approximately a
1% chance
of living."
Crude back at triple digits. Katherine
Thompson of the Cato Institute joins us
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
And this is how the day ahead is shaping
up. The main event at 8:30 Eastern time.
It's a read on inflation in America, CPI
at 8:30. And CPI [music]
in the months to come is going to take
on more and more importance as this
inflation rate, particularly [music] at
the headline level, continues to creep
higher. Yeah, we're looking right now at
a year-over-year comp for CPI at 3.7%
[music]
versus 3.3% in the prior reading. This
is moving in the wrong direction. We're
closer to four than we are to three at a
time where the target is two. And some
people say, "Well, CPI is not what the
Fed looks like." But actually, the
measure that they look at, core PCE, is
rising faster than [music] CPI. So, any
way you slice it, this is not a scenario
the Fed wants to see.
>> Hedge again today as markets have backed
off all-time highs on the S&P 500
features pulling back by just 0.3%
in the bond market. The scores look like
this. These numbers getting close to the
highs for the year. 443 on 10s. Let's
round it up, 5% on 30s, and once [music]
again testing 4% on the two-year. Yields
up about a basis point across the curve.
>> This is the market starting to pressure
a rate hike scenario for the Federal
Reserve, even if they aren't coming out
and even removing their easing bias. At
a certain point, if you have inflation
expectations, and you can see this in
break-even rates [music] starting to
creep higher, you have bond yields
creeping higher, you have a sense that
not only is this economy sturdy, [music]
but it can withstand the increased
prices from gasoline, from agricultural,
from other aspects. People are starting
to have to realize maybe we are in a new
inflationary [music] regime. You can
hear that from Wall Street analysts in
terms of what they're trying to hedge.
>> in crude is not helping, [music] up by
3%. WTI back into triple digits, 101
this morning. Brent crude at around 107,
also higher by some three percentage
[music] points. And as Savannah says
this morning, a ceasefire on life
support.
The ceasefire is on massive life support
where the doctor walks in and says,
"Sir, your loved one has approximately a
1% chance
of living." I have the best plan ever.
Iran has been defeated militarily,
[music] totally.
Uh they have a little left they probably
built up during this period of time.
We'll knock that out in about a day.
>> [music]
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump calling Iran's
response to the US proposal a quote,
"piece of garbage," while saying a
diplomatic solution is still possible.
Bloomberg's Mike Shepherd joins us now
from Washington for more. Mike, you're
charged with trying to translate all of
that. So, the proposal is garbage. The
ceasefire is on life support. What do we
know about the next steps this
administration is willing to take? Well,
some of those next steps, John, may
actually have to wait until after the
president returns from his trip to China
where Iran will be on the table front
and center as an issue between the
president and his Chinese counterpart,
Xi Jinping. But, in the meantime, they
are really hoping with that strong
language from President Donald Trump
that officials in Tehran will heed what
the US is saying about its posture
toward these negotiations. They had sent
Tehran a 14-point proposal for trying to
get back to the bargaining table to try
to negotiate an end to this now
10-week-long conflict. And that proposal
would include things like ending Iran's,
at least temporarily, Iran's enrichment
of nuclear materials, allowing the US to
take possession of some of the enriched
uranium that it has. All of this in
exchange for sanctions relief.
Critically, John, it would also call for
reopening the Strait of Hormuz. And that
has emerged as a larger and larger
sticking point as this drags on. We're
seeing that this key choke point in the
global energy supply chain really
emerging as such a major factor in the
conflict. We're seeing, and we'll see
today with the CPI numbers, the
increasing effect of what the rising oil
and
natural gas prices are having across the
global economy. So, two sides are trying
to exert some leverage over the Strait
of Hormuz. And it's unclear who will
actually prevail and what might emerge
actually from these talks in China
between the
President Donald Trump and Xi Jinping on
this regard.
>> Well, Shep, let's stand those talks.
Just how narrow, how focused will those
talks be? How much space is there to
talk about the Middle East?
Well, there will have to be space
because China is a is dependent on the
Gulf for a lot of its energy needs and
it is putting pressure on Xi Jinping to
try to find alternatives to make sure
that domestic needs for energy are met.
And Iran has also forged this
relationship with China over the years
and has occasionally looked to China to
try to act as an interlocutor and more
broadly other Asian economies that also
do business with China have also been
feeling the pinch of energy prices
rising and that is in turn going to
affect their ability to do business with
their neighbor China, the world's second
largest economy. The US has also been
looking to pressure China over its
support for Iran in terms of possible
military sales, sales of military
equipment to Tehran and as well over
sanctions violations. The US recently
imposed sanctions on a bunch of Chinese
companies, John, for buying oil from
Iran against the measures that have been
imposed to restrict Tehran's ability to
capture global hard currency from its
oil riches. Hi Shep, it's good to see
you. We'll catch up with you again in
the next national chat. Thank you. Just
on the conversations around the meeting
between President Trump and Xi Jinping.
Look at the lineup of CEOs that will be
attending that meeting with the
president or at least attending the
visit alongside him. Look who's missing.
Spot the guy who's not on the screen.
Jensen of Nvidia. Yeah, this comes after
Jensen Huang said that he would be
honored to accompany President Trump on
this trip and it comes with chips very
much at the forefront of discussions
with China. Is this a signal that maybe
the president is trying to distance
himself from Jensen Huang? How does this
sort of leave some of the chip
negotiations that have been incredibly
fraught between these two nations?
>> what, from my perspective, whatever
that's worth this morning, probably not
much, but I think it probably does
Nvidia a favor. Some of those chips
getting into the country through the
back door. People questioning the
relationship between him and the
administration right now. I think it
probably does him a favor that there's a
bit of separation on this visit to
China. Perhaps it also could be hinged
on the idea that China has created some
chips that are starting to work for the
deep seek model. How much is that going
to be at the forefront also of these
negotiations?
>> Let's build on some of this
conversation. Catherine Thompson of the
Cato Institute writing the volley and
give rejections and catch proposals
between Iran and the US demonstrates
just how far the administration is from
winding down this war. Catherine joins
us now for more. Catherine, welcome to
the program. The president's been very
clear on his objectives. Are you clear
on the strategy to achieve them?
No, absolutely not, right? Especially
because, right, if you look at the
president's own national security and
national defense strategy, um this
isn't, you know, starting a war with
Iran and and and sort of Iran's nuclear
ambitions are not core planks of the
strategy. They are not core elements of
of America first priorities. And so, I,
you know, I think unfortunately we've
we've deviated um quite a bit from from
the strategy, from the plan. Um and and
I think we're now so far down the the
rungs of the escalation ladder that
unfortunately there aren't um too many
options uh left to to to save the
ceasefire, so to speak, uh keep it, you
know, off of life support as as the
president illustrated, um and prevent
the resumption of fighting. Catherine,
there is an option to try to get China
to exert leverage over Iran. How much do
you expect this to be on the table and
what can the US offer as an exchange?
You know, it's hard to predict exactly
how much it's going to be on the table,
but I think, you know, actually, you
know, in terms of the military dynamic
between, you know, the US and China on
Iran and then also on Taiwan cuz I
think, you know, these pieces kind of
fit together. Um the the recent Time
magazine cover uh uh that included
President Trump and President Xi
uh with the headline never interrupt
your enemy when he's making a mistake.
Um I think is is illustrative of how
this conversation could
uh play out. I think you know, for
China, right? Like this is the time to
put uh big issues on the table like
Taiwan because they know that the US is
is distracted and bogged down um in the
Middle East. Obviously, you know, of
course the oil the oil dynamic and the
energy dynamic affects the Chinese and
so it's in their interest to, you know,
have that be part of the conversation.
Certainly, um but if I was them, you
know, right now, one of the things that
I would be focused on um is is getting
sort of my security agenda on the table
and it looks like based on what the
president was hinting about, you know,
in terms of uh the Taiwan dynamic and
arms sales to Taiwan, um that it's
certainly something they're not shying
away from putting on the table. And I
think they understand that the US is
significantly distracted um in the
Middle East yet again, not prioritizing
the Indo-Pacific um as as our defense
strategy says.
Um and unfortunately, uh you know, that
dynamic for us puts us I think in a in a
bit of a disadvantage uh at the table
across from the Chinese. That said,
there's a coterie of incredible CEOs who
are heading over there. I'm just
wondering what you think the
deliverables deliverables are going to
be on some sort of economic truce or
economic negotiation between China and
the US and how much that could still be
at the forefront of these negotiations.
I mean, it seems like that's the
priority for the president and and
certainly, you know, his suite of guests
that are are attending um would seem to
indicate that as well. And right, I
mean, and this is this is the concern
and this is why I'm watching the Taiwan
piece of this so closely because um you
know, for the Chinese, the the the piece
on arms sales to Taiwan and and and
potential further conversations about,
you know, the US role in in deterrence
in the Taiwan Strait um becomes a
forefront of the conversation for the
Chinese. For us, it's the economic piece
of the equation and getting some sort of
walking away with some sort of economic
deal. Um and how those two those two
pieces on the chessboard interact with
each other, um I think we'll be
incredibly important and and will be,
you know, one of the most pivotal
dynamics um to watch and and and it's
true, you can't separate um you know,
the military and the strategic dynamic
uh from the economic. Catherine, it's
good to see you down in Washington, D.C.
Catherine Thompson there at the Cato
Institute. I've heard that a lot, that
there's space here for China to think
about doing something around Taiwan. I
also wonder if it's an example of
warnings to the Chinese of what can go
wrong once you get involved in something
like this. Well, that's the reason why
some people are expecting
weapon sales to Taiwan to be on the
table and China to ask the US to sell
fewer weapons to Taiwan. And that is
something that in the past previous
presidents have said they're not going
to discuss. How much is that going to be
on the table? Not necessarily a
wholesale invasion of Taiwan, that's a
step too far and it's currently is not
priced in in any way, shape or form to
markets, but just on the margins of
eroding some of the protections around
Taiwan.
>> I think the chip sector would be in a
very different place. Well, exactly.
>> If that was on the table.
>> talking a sort of a Ukrainian-style
invasion ala Russia 2022. [music]
>> Let's hope we're not anytime soon.
Annmarie on the ground in China, we'll
catch up with AMH tomorrow morning.
Looking forward to that. Coming up on
the program, Bloomberg's Lizzie Burden
as Keir Starmer pushes back on calls for
his resignation. Some big moves [music]
in UK markets today. Plus, we'll catch
up with Yohai. She's got your morning
movers. Semi stocks sliding following a
rally in Monday's session. We're down
across the board.
>> [music]
>> Back to back record highs on the S&P 500
pulling back just a little bit this
morning. We're down a third of 1%
[music] on the S&P. On the Nasdaq, we're
down by 0.7. What a rally we've seen on
semis. You've heard all of the numbers
before. A gain of 70% almost 70% off the
lows
>> [music]
>> of the end of March. We have only had
four down days over that period for the
semi index. It is [music] now 18%
that industry group, 18% of the S&P 500.
Isn't that crazy?
>> Well, it gives you a sense of how far
they've come and how much this really is
the picks and shovels of the entire
[music] AI story. We talk about the $800
of expected CapEx this year from the
hyperscalers. That's almost all being
funneled to uh supplies like the
semiconductors. [music]
Jonathan Golub, while he was bullish
yesterday, he did present this bear case
that was really compelling at least for
the pond investors, which that a lot of
the hyperscalers are not booking the
cost of these semis, but the
semiconductors are booking the profits
from the purchases that they're
expecting. So, there's a bit of a
financial mismatch there that perhaps
also is helping to shield some of the
reality here. And this story shielding
this [music] equity market from this,
these moves in Brent, these moves in
crude, WTI back at a triple digits this
morning up by 3%, 107 [music] on Brent,
WTI at 101. With that move once again,
you see this move in fixed income.
>> [music]
>> Yields up across the curve, 2s, 10s,
30s. At what point does that screen
become a challenge to the story in the
equity market? We are basically at the
highs of the year on 10s and 30s, not
too [music] far away. The 30-year yield
essentially around five, 2s still
comfortably above the policy rate of the
Federal Reserve, 3.96, [music] up a
basis point across the curve. When does
that start to become a problem for risk
appetite?
>> When we were talking to Mike Wilson, he
said right now at about 4 and 1/2%,
[music]
that's when you start to see a little
bit of a
hesitant look over at the bond market
from [music] some of the equity bulls.
It depends why you're seeing yields
rise. If it is just sort of a one-time
price impulse from gas or oil [music]
prices, maybe not going to have the same
effect as a longer-lasting inflationary
shock from say semiconductor component
costs or just the idea that the economy
is robust enough to allow cost inflation
to be passed on. Those are sort of
that's the conundrum that that you could
see inflation get passed on because of
the strength in the economy, which
really leaves the Fed in a rocky spot.
>> And that screen is almost comfortable
compared to the next one. Switch out the
board and check out the UK gilt market
this morning. Two's [music] out to 30's.
Yields up by 10 basis points on 10's. We
are through 5%. We are approaching six
on 30's this morning. [music]
Now, you talked about why yields are up
and it matters what the driver is here.
Compare it to the currency. Sterling's
weaker. When you see the currency weaker
[music] in DM, and I'm not sure if this
is really classified as DM right now,
it's right on the edge of something
else. [music] And that something else is
not good. A weaker currency, high
yields, not a great picture for UK
assets.
>> I haven't seen so many heads of lettuce
since 2022 [music]
on Twitter, X, or whatever social media
you go to. There is an issue of Keir
Starmer potentially his exit. It's also
[music] the replacement, who that could
potentially be. But right now, it's
clear that the Liz Truss moment was not
a moment. It was something that was
portraying [music] the financial
conundrum facing the United Kingdom,
which is just weaker revenues, weak
growth, and a fiscal deficit that
continues to balloon. And when you have
that type [music]
of deficit and backdrop of growth, it is
toxic and the bond vigilantes are
circling like vultures.
>> Lizzie Burden standing by outside number
10 Downing Street. We'll catch up with
Lizzie in just a moment as we count you
down to the open about three hours away.
>> [music]
>> Some single names, some morning movers.
Yohara has more. Hi, Yohara. Hi, John.
As you said, along with the broader
market, the semiconduct- [music]
semiconductor stocks index also hitting
a record high yesterday with that index
now the most stretched above its 200-day
moving average since the dot-com [music]
era. But today, that toward rally is
taking a breather. We are seeing names
like Intel, Qualcomm, AMD, and Nvidia
all pulling back. But of course, it
pales in comparison [music]
with that rally. Turning to Hims and
Hers, that stock is plunging nearly
[music] 15% in the pre-market after the
company posted a sales miss and swung to
a loss. This is a company in transition
moving away from selling those copycat
GLP-1 drugs and now partnering with the
likes of Novo Nordisk to sell those
drugs, but that is turning out to be
much more [music] expensive than
investors had thought. And we end on AST
Space Mobile. That stock also plunging
11% after it missed on revenue and
posted a wider than expected loss.
[music] There was a lot of excitement
around this name uh heading into
earnings yesterday. Shares surged 10%
[music] around this idea that it could
provide cell service directly from space
here to here on Earth, but now investors
are questioning
>> [music]
>> uh how fast it can reach that vision.
>> John.
>> Yeah, Mihara, thank you. More from
Mihara later this hour. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
saying the ceasefire with Iran is on
massive life support after rejecting
Iran's latest peace offer. Trump calling
Iran's response a piece of garbage, but
saying a diplomatic solution is still
quote very possible. Elsewhere, 16 of
the nation's top executives are set to
join the president on his trip to China.
The CEOs of Apple, Tesla, and Citi among
those traveling to Beijing. One notable
absence, the Nvidia CEO, Jensen Huang.
And finally, South Korea's Kospi index
shedding more than $300 billion
after a policymaker suggested paying
citizens a dividend from taxes on AI
profits. The official clarifying the
funds would instead come from excess
revenue rather than a new tax, sparking
somewhat of a rebound, but a little bit
of a taster of maybe what's to come
further down the line. Clearly, there is
increasing concern politically and among
populations about what AI means for
their jobs, what it means for their
profits. If the best argument you can
make for human capital is that it's
cheaper than AI for now, you have to
imagine that's not exactly comforting
for where AI could go in the future
considering it's a machine, it doesn't
have to eat, it doesn't have to sleep,
and can be endlessly productive. It also
highlights how far the Kospi has gone.
Samsung, I believe, is the second most
profitable company in the world behind
Nvidia, and this comes with this
incredible demand for its chips. How
much could they be subject to pay for
some of the concerns over in the South
Korean economy that are coming from very
real pressures, whether it's oil prices
or whether it's just some of the
cyclical slowdown that you're seeing
around the world?
>> know how this turns out. So, we got to
assume a couple of things for this to
happen, but let's assume a couple of
things. If the number of winners is
smaller, if the number of people
unemployed goes higher, and if the
outlays for governments increases, then
the tax revenue's got to come from
somewhere. Where's it going to come
from? It's going to come from the small
number of winners. Clearly, corporate
taxes has got to go up on some of these
major winners. That's if you assume that
the number of winners gets smaller and
the number of unemployed gets higher.
That's still a big assumption at this
point.
>> And right now it does seem like
governments are treating this as an
existential risk. They want to win. They
want their companies to be the best and
strongest in the AI race so that they
can win market share globally at a time
when this is really uh the next big
thing. So, if that's the case, how much
does this prolong when we start seeing
taxes like this? Cuz you've seen that
push in the White House, and then the
pushback being like, "We want to win, so
you can't really crimp anything with
these companies."
>> be this is on the table for 28. I I
don't know. Maybe that's the biggest
threat to this rally. Who knows? It's
certainly going to be part of the
conversation around the politics for the
next few years.
>> When you bring that up with different
analysts, they're like, "Yeah, yeah, la
la la, but look at the earnings cuz
they're amazing. So, you know, worry
your worry your little head off, but you
know, it's not coming to fruition yet."
And that's sort of where people are
right now.
>> they say? What did Chris say? The less
you know. Yeah, I mean The less you
know.
>> The less you know. I think that that has
to be the theme when you just can't
understand what the policy could
potentially be.
>> Let's try and understand what's
happening in the UK. Check out the bond
market this morning, gilts slumping,
yields higher across the curve. 30s at
levels we haven't seen since the late
1990s, '98 to be precise. 10s at 5% even
with that move, the currency weaker. The
brew right now, as Brahma would say, in
the UK is very toxic for the Prime
Minister Keir Starmer, just about
holding on as the calls for his
resignation continue to build.
Bloomberg's Lizzy Burden joins us now
from Downing Street for more. Let's say
the last time we spoke, the Prime
Minister had rolled up his sleeves, he
dropped the tie, he made an aggressive
push to hang on to power. How big is the
pushback been in the last 24 hours?
Yeah, and he's still sounding defiant,
John. He's insisting that he won't go
down without a fight. He told a meeting
of his top team behind that black door
this morning that he takes full
responsibility for those abysmal
election results last week. The Labour
Party's election selection process for a
new leader hasn't been triggered because
he says the the country expects him to
govern and that's what he's going to do.
Now, we also report, interestingly, that
Labour officials say his strategy is to
dare the health secretary Wes Streeting
to announce the leadership challenge
that he's been cooking up for months
because he knows that many in the party
don't want a Prime Minister Wes
Streeting. So, he wants to incentivize
him to block a Streeting contest or a
contest that involves Streeting. But
then, out of that meeting, we had a
parade of five ministers coming to tell
us that they are backing the Prime
Minister. I'm interested in the ones who
didn't want to talk to the cameras.
About 15 of them walking past, the likes
of
Ed Miliband, the energy secretary with a
face of fun thunder, it has to be said.
He did not want to talk to anyone, but
privately we know that he's been urging
Starmer to set a timetable to go. The
likes of Streeting, silent on their way
out. And behind the scenes, we know that
dozens of MPs, at least 80 of the 403
Labour MPs have called for Starmer's
departure. One junior minister has
resigned. And so for now, I'd say we
came here earlier thinking maybe there
could be elected a podium in Downing
Street with Starmer resigning. It isn't
imminent, it doesn't seem like it's
imminent yet today,
but it still remains a question of when,
not if, Starmer's going to go. Lizzy,
what's the main issue that Keir Starmer
is being accused with in terms of sort
of failing his duty, and who is lined up
to take over?
Failing to connect with the public, to
be able to win elections. No Labour MP
wants to get to the general election in
2029, if that's when it comes, and be
wiped out by Reform UK, Nigel Farage's
party. They don't want to lose their
seat to the Greens, either. And the the
threat's coming from left, right, and
center, literally, to Labour. But,
interestingly, when you look at the
markets, you were talking about the gilt
moves, the market's behind Starmer,
seemingly, because the market doesn't
want anybody who would be more fiscally
lax than Starmer. Now, what would be
interesting is if Starmer goes, but you
keep the Chancellor, Rachel Reeves.
She's known for her fiscal prudence, and
allies of the Chancellor have been
telling the Financial Times that she
could stay, even if there's change at
the top. Lizzy, we often talk about
guardrails.
I just wonder if this is a home bias of
ours.
Of course, the first thing you and I do
is go to the gilt market. Lizzy's all
over it, the moves we've seen, the
highest numbers we've seen since 1998.
How much do those moves matter to the
left wing of the Labour party?
I've been asking myself that question
all day. I'm so glad that you said it
out loud. We know the importance of the
bond market. Rachel Reeves knows the
importance of the bond market. I believe
Keir Starmer knows it, as well. But, to
your point, does the left wing of the
party know the importance of the bond
market? Can it have such a short memory?
You were talking about 2022 and the Liz
Truss moment. Are we going back to that
already? That is the question that
journalists, who we've been
shoulder-to-shoulder here in Downing
Street today, waiting for election, have
been asking ourselves, "How are we here
already?" When Starmer was in with a
landslide vote just a couple of years
ago. And yet we've got this turmoil
around the top of the leadership yet
again. It smacks of what happened to the
Conservatives not so long ago, but it is
a short memory in politics. When you've
got the charisma of
Nigel Farage on the right, Zack Polanski
of the Greens on the left, it's
difficult for a man like Keir Starmer to
cut through when
again and again it just seems like he
cannot read the room. Just saying over
the weekend he intends to be here for
another 10 years. And as I say, that
defiance on display today. Lizzy,
looking forward to your coverage over
the next few weeks. I get a feeling this
story is not going away. Lizzy Burden
there outside number 10 Downing Street
this market pushing back. You're tired
across the curve. You know, it seems
like financial markets and sentiment are
in two different two different worlds.
The idea that bond markets are saying,
"Where's your fiscal plan?" And people
are saying, "Well, you're not very
likable. You know, I want to go out for
a beer with you." And until you can
bridge that divide, you know,
potentially there will be this tension
in financial markets.
>> bigger problems than not just being
likable.
That's for sure.
Seems to be the suggestion coming from
markets as well. We'll return to that
story no doubt over the next few days.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, Yuhaira Hasmar. Hi
Yuhaira. Hi John. Fed Chair nominee
Kevin Warsh is one step closer to
confirmation. The Senate advancing Warsh
through a procedural vote setting up a
vote
>> [music]
>> to confirm him to the Federal Reserve
Board later today. A separate vote is
expected to pass later this week
officially [music] confirming him as the
new Fed Chair.
The US Treasury Department blacklisting
12 firms and individuals, including some
based in Hong Kong, [music]
over the sale of Iranian oil to China.
They are accused of facilitating the
sale on behalf of the Islamic Revolution
Revolutionary [music] Guard Corps.
And the UAE reportedly carrying out
previously unknown military strikes
[music] against Iran. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the Emiratis launched
attacks on an Iranian refinery in the
Gulf last month. The Emirati government
declining to [music] comment on the
report but asserting its right to
respond to threats. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John. [music]
Johanna, thank you. Thanks for that
update. Up next on the program, mounting
inflation expectations.
This month we're definitely going to
have a bit of a spicier inflation
report. Ultimately, it matters how all
of these inflation numbers that we get
this week come come together to
>> [music]
>> form a PCE inflation forecast. Up next,
we'll catch up with Greg Daco of EY live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
A bit of weakness out there. Sammy's
down this morning, hence the move in the
Nasdaq. We're down by 0.8% on the S&P
500 [music] negative by 0.4. The next
stop for this market CPI later this
morning at 8:30 Eastern time. [music]
Just run through the estimates for you
just briefly. Year-over-year, headline
[music] CPI we're looking for a number
close to 4% here. 3.7 is the median
estimate in our survey. That's up from
3.3.
Core, stripping out the volatile food
and energy type stuff, 2.7. Much lower,
but above the previous read of 2.6. This
all [music] year-over-year. On one hand,
you could say energy costs you can look
through because they tend to be
temporary, [music] fleeting,
self-correcting in nature. This time
though, they come with other types of
shocks as well. You're seeing the prices
of food go up. You're seeing the prices
of semiconductor components go up.
You're seeing the prices [music] of
metals of all types go up. As a result,
people are wondering, well, how many
different price inflation shocks can you
have before suddenly you have a problem?
And that's why you're seeing it bleeding
to the bond market.
>> of energy going up as well this morning,
climbing by close to 4%. 101 on WTI.
Brent crude approaching 108,
>> [music]
>> and up by 3.4%. The president saying the
Iranian proposal totally unacceptable.
The ceasefire on life support,
describing a hospital setting.
Pretty dark stuff [music] coming out of
the Oval yesterday.
>> I felt really bad for the hospitalized
ceasefire. I'm thinking to myself, has
it called its relatives? What's it going
to have for a meal? Look, it does
highlight how the bar has gotten lower
for some sort of military action. We're
still not pricing that in though. This
move that we're seeing in crude, not
even close to what it will be if there
is actually a military escalation.
>> Things are fragile, they have been for a
while. The blockade continues, all of
this ahead of the president's trip to
China. Underneath the Venice this
morning, mounting inflation
expectations.
This month [music] we're definitely
going to have a bit of a spicier
inflation report. Ultimately, it matters
how all of these inflation numbers that
we get this week come come together to
form a PCE inflation forecast. We do see
inflation [music] coming down, in some
ways very much in line with how markets
are pricing. So, here's the latest this
morning. Investors are awaiting fresh
inflation data wrap in just under 2
hours time. Brad Iacono of EY writing,
"While we still expect inflation to ease
later in 2026 as labor market conditions
soften, the near-term inflation outlook
has shifted enough that we no longer
expect a rate cut in December." Brad
joins us now for more. Brad, good
morning. We'll get to the expectations
for the Fed in just a moment. Let's just
start with what you're expecting to see
at 8:30. What are you looking for?
Well, we're looking for a 0.5% increase
month-on-month when it comes to CPI and
0.4% month-on-month when it comes to
core CPI. So, there is some pass-through
of these higher energy prices onto core
inflation. That will lift CPI inflation
closer to 4% and lift core inflation
closer to 3% and I think over the next
couple of months we're going to see even
further upward pressures because what's
happening is that we're really testing
the price of growth. We're testing the
price of trade and commerce. We're
testing the price of labor with the
immigration constraints. We're testing
the price of energy and we're testing
the price of technology. All of these
supply shocks are leading to rising
inflationary pressures that are
gradually eroding growth momentum. So
it's not just a story about this month,
but it's really a story about the next
few months and where we end up in this
trade-off between growth and inflation.
Pretty uncomfortable position for the
incoming Fed chair to be in. For Kevin
Warsh, Greg, I just wonder how you think
he's going to handle those situations,
that situation we're going into.
Well, I think we've heard from most on
the follow FOMC policy committee that
essentially they're leaning towards more
focus on the inflation side of the
mandate. And that is the right approach
right now because if you look at the two
mandates, you have the unemployment rate
that is still low. I think it is hiding
some underlying fragilities. We saw that
the underemployment rate, which includes
part-time workers that are looking for
full-time work, rose a little bit in the
month of April, but in general, there is
a sense that the labor market is still
in this balanced environment, whereas
inflation is moving away from the 2%
target and that is getting a lot of
attention. And I think when Kevin Warsh
steps in as the FOMC chair, he will have
to convince his colleagues that there is
any form of need for easing. The current
direction of travel when it comes to
policy is actually, in my opinion, going
to be reinstating a two-sided statement
when it comes to the possibility of rate
hikes over the next few months should
inflation prove more persistent than
currently is the case. Greg, a lot of
people think that this isn't feasible
given the fact that President Trump is
the one who nominated Kevin Warsh and
mandated him with cutting interest
rates. Why do you disagree?
Well, I think generally speaking, he
will first have to convince his fellow
FOMC members that his intents are
essentially geared towards fulfilling
the dual mandate that the Fed has and
not any type of political bias. So, I
think he will be restrained in that
regard when it comes to any type of
political desire to lower interest rates
because the rest of the committee is not
convinced at all that there is any need
for policy easing. If anything, as I was
just saying, there is probably a desire
to maintain a slightly restrictive
monetary policy stance and we may see a
few that become more vocal with the need
to tighten monetary policy because
again, this is not just about this
energy price shock. It's about the
layered supply shocks that we've been
seeing over the past year, year and a
half or so, which are leading to higher
inflationary pressures and eroding
growth momentum. Greg, how much if you
stripped out hyperscaler growth, would
you start to see a truly stagflationary
type of backdrop taking hold in the
United States?
I mean, that's a great question, Lisa,
and I think we've spoken about this in
the past. When you look at all the
supply shocks from the trade supply
shocks, the immigration supply shocks,
the geopolitical supply shocks and the
AI-led tech revolution, we're very
fortunate to have this AI-led tech
revolution that's underway that is
supporting supply-side dynamics because
absent that investment in AI that's been
a key conductor of economic activity, we
would be seeing much, much lower growth.
So, to answer your question, the AI boom
that we're currently seeing, which is is
in the initial stages of greater
infrastructure spending, greater
investment in the semiconductor field,
greater investment in corporate
adoption, that is a great support to
economic activity, but I always come
come to this notion that what we're
seeing with the US economy right now is
a narrow foundation to growth. Affluent
consumers, AI investment, and asset
price appreciation are currently leading
growth, but that makes the economy more
susceptible to potential headwinds that
may come again and again over the next
few months.
>> Elissa, it's such a fantastic question.
Just imagine if we had a $1 trillion
infrastructure spending program coming
out of the US government and they said,
"Yeah, we'll do it again and we'll
increase it a year later." Basically,
got essentially that, close to it, from
a handful of companies on the West
Coast. When you start talking about the
scope of the spending and you start
seeing that it's poised to exceed the
defense spending budget next year, it
gives you a sense of what we're looking
at. If you take that out, the rest of
the economy is at trend growth or even
potentially below, and that's a real
problem. How do you cater to that side
of the economy while not stymieing what
we're seeing over on the other side? Hi
Greg, it's good to see you. As always,
thank you, sir. Greg Daco there at EY.
To your point, it's an economy
increasingly geared to the capex end of
a handful of companies. It's also the
higher end of the K, the upper end of
the K, increasingly geared to the good
feelings you get from financial markets
all-time highs, and both those stories
are interconnected. And [clears throat]
they're fueling inflation. If you take a
look at why core PCE is increasing at a
faster pace than CPI, it's because of
the inputs that are being juiced by some
of these hyperscalers and the purchases
that they're making. You start putting
this together and you say if the Fed
were to cut rates to help the lower end
of the K, it would just juice the
profits that much more and frankly the
returns in the financial markets, which
would only widen the K. It's sort of
just an incredibly difficult, fraught
moment for a central bank that is faced
with a dual mandate that on the margins
is somewhat still in conflict.
>> 30s at 5 this morning, just crossing
that level, yields up by a basis point
or two. 5% if TK was around the table,
he'd say overtaken by events.
You want to draw down the balance sheet
here, reduce it. Incoming Fed chair
Kevin Warsh, that's a big [music]
challenge with yields at these levels.
>> He's gotten a pass for the next couple
of months. Let's see what he does after
that. Up next on the program, Ed Yardeni
of Yardeni Research, Lisa economy of the
Hoover Institution, David Tinsley of the
Bank of America Institute, and George
Saravelos of Deutsche [music] Bank. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
This month we're definitely going to
have a bit of a spicier inflation
report.
>> The inflation genie has been let out of
the bottle.
>> We now think inflation could bubble up
to 4%.
>> Well, last thing we need is additional
monetary stimulus.
>> The Fed's going to stay on hold for a
while. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from audience
worldwide. The second down of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now and your
scores are Price action looks like this.
Pulling back from all-time highs down a
third of 1% on the S&P down by 0.7 on
the Nasdaq. A ceasefire on life support
driving crude higher. WTI and Brent WTI
triple digits 101, Brent 108, [music]
and pushing yields higher across the
curve. Two's, 10's, and 30's 30's north
of 5% briefly this morning 4.99 heading
into this 90 minutes away. Inflation
data just around the corner. CPI before
PPI comes tomorrow. [music]
>> Yeah, and right before retail sales and
what the trifecta of economic data shows
us this week is that people are growing
more concerned about inflation than they
are downside risk to growth. It was the
opposite say around two months ago when
people were gaming out how long this
could go on. They thought [music] if it
reached this point, we would see some
sort of fear of a some sort of economic
downturn. It hasn't happened. Maybe it's
supported [music] by spending on
hyperscalers, maybe it's supported by
how much stimulus really has boosted the
coffers [music]
of savings by a US consumers.
Nonetheless, earnings have been
incredible. People keep pointing to
that, which has allowed inflation to
remain higher than a lot of people
[music] had expected.
>> Five respected strategists on Wall
Street upgrading their price targets
since this war started. Five. And all
five of them have pointed to the same
thing, better earnings.
Where's the threat to this rally going
to come from? Let's bring up fixed
income. Bring up the board. Twos, tens,
[music] 30s. Are we getting closer to
what is Max Kettner of HSBC would call
the so-called danger zone with tens at
440 [music] and 30s essentially at 5%?
>> We're bleeding up to that level,
although the pace of the increase has
been relatively slow based on what we
saw earlier in the conflict. [music] We
aren't seeing a massive increase in
implied volatility in bond markets,
which is a reason why it still is
boiling the frog. We haven't hit that
sort of panic button yet. Nonetheless,
people have an eye on it saying, "If the
Fed really starts to talk about rate
[music] hikes, that could be the party
killer. And that could be essentially
when the cops come and say go home."
From my perspective,
>> [music]
>> interesting analogy.
>> Thank you. From my perspective, better
than the hospital one.
The two-year is the more eye-catching
move this morning, [music]
getting closer to 4% again, because that
is a direct challenge to an incoming Fed
chair who most people are arguing wants
to reduce interest rates. Yet, you've
got a two-year yield above the policy
rate. We did that last month. We're
doing it again this morning, getting
closer and closer to 4%. [music]
>> There are an increasing number of Fed
officials who have come out and said
that they would have been in favor of
removing the easing bias from the Fed
statement. And even though they were not
voting members, I do think Jackson
Hole's going to be fascinating this
year.
>> Right. Jerome Powell has to come out
>> [music]
>> and give some guide of how inflation is
a choice and what he's choosing
inflation to be, because ultimately, is
this an inflation increase they're
willing to tolerate and say is
temporary, or are they going to have to
address this, meet the market's
expectations, and say, "We have to tamp
this down. We can't allow this to become
normalcy," because right now, consumers
are paying these prices. They actually
are accepting them. That's why retail
sales is going to be interesting. How
much are consumers saying, "Man, that
really stinks, but I'm still going to
pay $20 for an egg sandwich."
>> CPI, 87 minutes away. Do you do that?
No, I hope you don't. Right, good. Just
to clear that up. Inflation data, 8:30
Eastern time. Futures right now, [music]
negative 0.4%. Coming up this hour, Ed
Yardeni of Yardeni Research with a
street high outlook for equities.
Elizabeth Economy of the Hoover
Institution ahead of President Trump's
trip to China. And David Tinsley of the
Bank of America Institute on the state
of the US consumer. We begin this hour
with stocks hovering near all-time
highs. Ed Yardeni boosting his year-end
price target on the S&P from 7,700 to
8,250. Writing the following, "We've
never seen consensus earnings
expectations rise so quickly as they
have in recent months. The result has
been an earnings-led melt-up in the
stock market." Ed joins us now for more.
Ed, welcome to the program. Been looking
forward to this conversation with you.
8,250 year-end on the S&P 500. Ed, let's
just talk about the earnings. Outside of
recoveries, GFC, the pandemic, strip
that out. Outside of recoveries, when
was the last time earning season and
projections for earnings were this good?
I I don't really recall anything like
this. It's been extraordinary. Uh the
first quarter earnings uh
expectations really weren't uh all that
bad coming into the first quarter
earning season. Actually, they were
holding up pretty well and uh instead,
they turned out to be much better and in
top of that, they're the analysts are
raising their second, third, and fourth
quarter numbers. Uh so now it looks as
though we're going to have something
like an 18% year-over-year increase in
the first quarter and for the year as a
whole, uh they're
uh expecting 24%
and that's definitely unprecedented.
That's the kind of double-digit gains
you see coming out of a recession. Uh
you don't see it in an economy that's uh
been growing for a while. Ed, looking
across industry groups,
the semis right now make up about 18% of
the S&P 500. How much heavy lifting are
the chip plays doing?
Well, I think that's part of the story,
but uh we're also seeing that uh the uh
uh earnings expectations for the uh
small caps and the mid caps have been
going up to to record highs.
Those those two areas of the market were
actually sort of in a coma,
flatlining since 2022
in terms of earnings expectations. And
then over the past 6 months or so, we've
suddenly seen them picking up and going
to to new record highs. So, I think
earnings breadth is actually improving
and if that's the case, that should lead
to an improvement in the breadth of the
market. How sustainable is this, Ed,
given the fact that we're hearing about
consumers increasingly pushing back on
pricing increases, increasingly being
choosy as a result of some of the
inflation that they're seeing across the
market?
Well, you mentioned it before. There's a
widespread belief that this is the K
economy where a lot of people are
facing an affordability crisis and only
a few people are doing well.
I think that's I'm not dismissing that,
but I think a lot of that misses the
impact of demography. I'm I'm a baby
boomer. I'm still working for a living,
but I'm seeing a lot of my friends
retiring and the baby boomers
collectively have a record $89 trillion
of net worth and they're starting to
spend it. So, all this anxiety about
disposable income going flat, well, that
that's natural. I mean, baby boomers
are at the the peak of their careers and
they're retiring, so that's going to
flat. Meanwhile, they're spending their
retirement
assets and so they're continuing to
spend and I think a lot of baby boomers
are helping their young adult children,
maybe with mortgage payments, helping
out with the grandchildren's
after-school activities, some of the
fees there.
I know I see this from personal
experience as well as from my friends
and
so I I think that's what's missing here
and that explains why the consumer has
been so remarkably resilient and I think
that continues. So, I I I really buy the
idea that this economy is just being
propped up by the uh capital spending on
technology by a few by a few companies.
I think the consumers are definitely
there and the weakness of the consumer
in the fourth quarter and the first
quarter was weather-related. So, we're
about to test that. We'll see what
retail sales looks like up ahead here.
Um and um put it all together and I
think the economy is remains resilient
as it has been since the beginning of
the Well, I call it the roaring 2020s
and so far, so good. If that's the case,
Ed, then isn't it true that we would see
a more sustainable inflation rate moving
higher as a result of the increased
consumer spending power, the increased
amount of money, and frankly, a supply
shock after supply shock that's hit the
economy?
Yeah, that's a good That's a good point
and I I I think it's uh we have a recent
example of uh what can happen and that
was in 2022 when we saw
uh a spike in energy prices, but that
was on top of supply-side disruptions
and uh you know, so supply chain
disruptions and you can argue that the
same thing is happening now, but the big
difference is wage inflation uh is
really moderating and um we're we're we
have a
labor market that's in equilibrium.
Supply equals demand, so we're not
seeing a lot of upward pressure on
wages, whereas we saw a tremendous
amount of uh wage pressure in '21, '22
and there was a lot more demand than
supply of labor and that led to a wage
price spiral. So, I think what's missing
on the inflation side this time is the
wage price spiral. Uh we certainly have
an energy spike and that'll certainly uh
lead to higher inflation for the next
few months, but uh I think both the bond
and the stock market have basically
looked looked through it. By the way, I
I I kind of view bond yields of 4 and
1/4% to 4 and 3/4% as normal. I'm not
getting freaked out by it.
Um that, you know, suddenly we're we're
going to see the bond vigilantes act up,
though, you know, I'm watching them.
Right now, the bond vigilantes are
acting up in Tokyo and uh and and in
London. I I don't see them
here just yet. So Ed, with that in mind,
just build on that. When does it become
a threat, this move in fixed income?
Well, it's interesting, you know, a
couple of years ago well
I think it was in 2024 we saw the bond
yield going up from 4% to to 5% in 3
months. Uh that was August, September,
October. Uh
and uh it got up to 5% November 1st and
Janet Yellen who was Treasury Secretary
back then said, "Okay, okay, we're the
the Treasury's not going to increase the
supply of bonds. We're going to do our
increased financing in the T-bill
market." And so the bond vigilantes are
not the only players here. And and by
the way, the bond yield came tumbling
down. And so uh the Treasury and the Fed
could still uh intervene in the market
to keep it from going above 5%. And on
top of all that, I think we still have
the carry trade going on where I think a
lot of hedge funds are in fact uh
sitting there in the Cayman Islands or
at least their books are sitting in the
Cayman Islands uh borrowing in Japan at
uh 0.75%
and buying bonds and getting a nice
spread on it. Ed, do you think Kevin
Walsh has got appetite to use the
balance sheet of the Federal Reserve to
intervene in the Treasury market?
Uh
well, I think uh Bessen uh Treasury
Secretary Bessen uh has the appetite to
do what he was against doing when when
Janet Yellen did it and that is issue
more more bills and fewer bonds if if
that's necessary. I don't think they're
they're going to just kind of sit there
and let the bond yield go from 5 to 6%
uh and I don't think it's going to go
there. I think there's a a lot of uh the
bond is the US bond is still viewed as a
safe haven and there's plenty to the the
reasons to worry about things these
days.
Ed, it's good to see you. As always,
just a final note. The next time you
write a boomer stimulus check, you know
where to mail it, okay? Ed Yardeni.
>> [laughter]
>> If you have had research. Are you
getting bonus stimulus checks? I am not
going to comment on that.
>> receiving end of those either. I imagine
I'll be doing that at some point
[laughter] and I've already started to
think about, you know, where to draw the
lines, but uh really interesting take
because even some of the potential
endpoints for a roaring 2020s don't seem
to worry him. Like higher yields doesn't
seem to be on his base case of issues to
work about. The man who coined bond
vigilantes doesn't see bond vigilantes
being brought back into into service in
the United States anytime soon.
>> There's two ways of looking at this
move, right? There's many, but here are
two. You can look at this as a challenge
to risk assets or just a reflection of a
more resilient economy. An economy that
can handle yields at this level. I'm not
talking about gilts, by the way. I'm
talking about treasuries.
>> That's the reason why it hasn't been
necessarily a cold stop to the rally
that we've seen in equities because
right now it really is a representative
of the growth that we're seeing
underlying the economy. That said, there
are pockets that really are struggling
as a result of interest rates. The
housing market being one of them, which
clearly is a focus of this
administration. These sell-offs in
treasuries often become self-limiting
because it starts to bite and then you
get a turnaround. I don't think we're
there yet. We're 10-year 443 30s around
5%. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief. You
Hirai has more. Hey, Hirai. Hi, John.
The UAE's primary natural gas plant is
set to return to full capacity next
year. The plant has suffered damage from
the Iran war after being targeted
[music] twice last month. The UAE
estimating a financial hit of up to $600
million in the second quarter from the
closure [music] of the Strait of Hormuz.
Amazon kicking off another round of
financing in the debt market. The tech
and retail giant is selling bonds across
a record six maturities [music]
denominated in Swiss francs. It follows
a $54 billion debt sale in March across
US and European debt markets.
And the mayor of a California suburb
resigned after agreeing to plead guilty
to [music] acting as an unregistered
foreign agent for China. According to
court documents, Eileen Wang admitted to
posting pro-China propaganda at the
direction of Chinese government
officials. That's Bloomberg Brief, John.
Yeah, Haris. [music] Thank you. Thank
you very much. Up next on the program, a
high-stakes meeting with President Xi.
I have a great relationship with
President Xi. We're doing a lot of
business, but it's smart business. I
respect him a lot.
And hopefully he respects me.
Up next, we'll catch up with Elizabeth
Economy of the Hoover Institution live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
In 1 hour and 15 minutes time, we'll get
inflation data in America. And headline
CPI year-over-year could come in close
to 4%. The median estimate in our
survey, 3.7. [music] That sets the stage
this morning for these moves. Equity
futures declining this session lows on
the S&P 500 -0.4. On the Nasdaq, we're
down by [music] 0.95.
A weighted to take this morning with
this move in crude. WTI and Brent, WTI
reclaiming triple digits, 101. Brent
crude 107. And yields higher across the
curve, 10s through 440 and 30s briefly
this morning through 5%. [music]
>> We're talking about both the domestic
market in the United States with
inflation hotter than people [music]
would like, and also economy that's
growing. But we're also talking about
global bond vigilantes. Whether it's in
Japan or whether it's the United
Kingdom, [music] this is a global market
with yields pushing higher. At what
point does that create a slow down to
growth that maybe isn't being priced in?
The big global event over the next 24-48
hours is this one. Under Savannah's this
morning a high stakes meeting with
President Xi.
I have a great relationship with
President Xi. We're doing a lot of
business, but it's smart business. I
think you can see that with the fact
that in Hormuz, they get a big
percentage, 40% of their oil from
Hormuz. There's been
no ships coming in, no nasty ships
coming in that we end up in skirmishes
with. There's been
He'd like to see it get done. I respect
him a lot.
And hopefully he respects me. So, here's
the latest this morning. President Trump
traveling to China today for a summit
with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping.
The meeting on Thursday said to be
shaped by the ongoing war in Iran.
Bloomberg's Mike Shepherd joins us now
for more. Shep, welcome back. This
meeting was delayed. Delayed because of
this war. How different are things a
month or so later?
Well, because the war is continuing,
John, it really does frame and shape the
discussions that are going to start
Wednesday night at our time, about 10:00
p.m. That is when the two leaders are
set to sit down. That would be about
10:00 a.m. local time in Beijing. And
the Iran war really will be first and
foremost for the two sides to discuss.
China will be pressing the President of
the United States to bring an end to
this 10-month conflict, which is really
sown trouble across the global economy,
mostly in the form of squeezes on the
supply chain, especially for energy, a
pinch that that only consumers here in
the US and elsewhere in the world are
feeling, but especially in Asia. And
China is no exception. The US, for its
part, will be pressing China on the
question of Iran, and that includes
Beijing's support for the regime in
Tehran. And that could include concerns
that the US has aired that there may be
some exchanges of military support,
including arms sales, to the government
in Iran, as well as purchases of Iranian
oil by Chinese company. and the US just
sanctioned a bunch of Chinese entity
entities for those
purchases and we could see that
discussed as well. But the two sides
will also have so much other business
get through. But Iran certainly John
will be first and foremost of them.
Shep, thank you, sir. Good to see you.
Down in the nation's capital might Shep
it. That's a vote on this conversation.
Elizabeth economy of the Hoover
Institution writing the only channel of
communication is economic. That is both
where there is the greatest conflict,
but also the most forward momentum.
Elizabeth joins us now for more listen
good to see you. Thanks, good to be
here.
>> What are you expecting to come out of
this meeting later this week? Look, I
think there are basically three big
buckets of issues that both sides want
to address. The first and I think most
important is that both sides really want
to find some stabilization in the
relationship. I think they're aligned
around that. So developing a mechanism
so that we're not doing a tit-for-tat on
the tariffs and the export controls and
investigations, I think is number one
and that's where I think you're going to
get this board of trade and maybe
further down the line a board of
investment. I think that's really the
most important. Second of course and
crucial for President Trump are some big
wins that he can take home, right? Some
purchases of soybeans and and who knows
energy,
you know, airplanes of course and we see
some of the CEOs that are accompanying
President Trump that are in these
spaces. I think for China they'd like
the US to just treat China as a a normal
country, right? Not to have the highest
level export controls, not to have the
most investment restrictions, not to
have the highest level of tariffs, but
to really find a way to do sort of
normal trade. And then third I think is
that that bucket of broader security
issues, Iran, Russia, you know,
fentanyl. I think these are other issues
and certainly I should say the Chinese
will raise Taiwan. I think these are the
other issues that are going to be on the
deck for the two leaders. Point two,
aren't they a normal country?
I I don't think economically they're a
normal country, no. And I think the you
know, sort of Chinese economic model uh,
is now presenting problems not only for
the United States, but for the rest of
the world. Think it's useful to note uh,
that 52 countries last year put in place
trade defense measures against China.
So, the way that China does business
really poses challenges for, you know,
not only advanced income, but now middle
income and emerging economies. There was
a story, there been a number of stories
in a number of uh, the biggest
newspapers about how China has a lot
more leverage than the United States and
about how the economy is in a much
better position to propose to pose a
real competitive threat to the United
States. Do you agree with that framing?
Well, look, I think it's it's fair to
say that China has an important
chokehold on on sort of goods that are
essential to US economic and national
security like rare earth elements and
critical minerals uh, like uh, active
pharmaceutical ingredients. So,
certainly uh, they've developed new uh,
leverage, new tools, but I think
President Trump has the capacity to move
past that in many respects, maybe to put
on some virtual reality glasses and
create his own world and negotiate from
what he believes is a position of
strength. United States doesn't go into
this without, you know, any tools at its
disposal. Um, the tariffs have had some
impact on China. It has export controls.
It just it's been continuing to move
forward on on export controls around
chip making equipment just this past
week. It had a, you know, a letter of
uh, intent basically an informed letter
which basically signals to some US
companies that they're going to have to
put in some new export controls against
Chinese companies. So, I think there are
tools that we have at our disposal uh,
and the president will go in at least
feeling stronger than many many other
people may recognize.
>> If that's the case, what's the signal
that you take from Jensen Huang of
Nvidia not accompanying President Trump
on this trip?
Well, look, I think
um, Jensen's had a lot of attention, you
know, paid to Nvidia and the president,
you know, made a move basically on his
behalf and on AMD's behalf last year
when he allowed the sale of the H200s to
go forward, which was something that he
did against a lot of opposition both
within his own administration and
Congress and then within the national
security community.
Those sales haven't materialized.
So, I think maybe what would be the
point at this point of of him going. I
think if you look at the companies that
are accompanying the president in the
tech space, many of them are a little
bit of problem children. They have
issues with the Chinese government right
now. Either they're not getting
licenses, they're under investigation,
they're concerned about shrinking market
share. So, I think there will probably
be an effort to get some of those very
particular issues addressed in the
summit.
>> Can we finish on Taiwan?
And maybe a bit of a reality check to
the narrative that we hear a lot in
these kind of conversations. There is an
opening here for them to make a move on
Taiwan. The president's distracted. He's
bogged down in the Middle East right
now. What's your read on what's actually
going to happen? So, I don't think the
Chinese are going to make a move, a
military move on Taiwan, because
President Xi really wants to have a
peaceful resolution. I think he's
planning to wait until 2028 when there's
a an election in Taiwan where he
believes that perhaps the opposition
party, the KMT, may come to power and
the KMT is more favorably disposed
toward Beijing. So, I think there's a a
window here where I think we're not
going to see any military action. That
being said, we also don't want to see
President Trump give any more space to
Beijing on Taiwan. I think, you know,
the administration certainly recognizes
that Taiwan, you know, basically
produces over 90% of the most advanced
chips that we need both for commercial
and military purposes and it is
essential to our national security. It's
part of the first island chain. So, I
think what we what we don't want is for
Taiwan to be central in this meeting or
to see any give on the US position. We
hear repeatedly that under this
president, the administration, the US is
willing to give up its global leadership
role. Do you see it the same way?
I think the US is redefining its global
leadership role under President Trump.
It's not giving up. I think there's a
misperception that President Trump has
retreated from the global the global
stage. You know, the sort of idea that
we're going to have a sphere of
influence policy, only be focused on the
Western Hemisphere. I mean, we are
deeply embedded in the Indo-Pacific.
We're clearly still in the Middle East.
So, I don't see any evidence that we're
pulling back from our global positioning
in the security realm. Um I also think
what we see is Yes, the president has
withdrawn the United States from over
five dozen international institutions
and arrangements, but at the same time
he's creating new ones. His
administration is creating new
arrangements like the Shield of the
Americas and Forge around issues where
the administration feels they're
critical to US sort of security and
economic interests. So, around, you
know, critical minerals, around rare
earth elements, doing bilateral deals,
establishing a new multilateral trade
arrangement. So, it's not a complete
withdrawal, but it's a refocusing around
what this particular administration
considers to be sort of the essential US
economic and security interests. Liz is
good to see you in person, too. Thanks
for being here. Thank you very much.
Elizabeth Economy there of the Hoover
Institution. We've heard that argument a
few times. It's hard to make that
argument given the activity we've seen
from this president through the year so
far.
>> Honestly, it's been a completely global
focus, more so sometimes than even
domestic concerns, especially as he has
overturned for the first time in about a
decade. Coming up on the program, we'll
catch up with David Tinsley of the Bank
of America [music] Institute on the
state of the US consumer, plus Danny has
your money movers, Him & Hers plunging
with higher than expected costs for
weight loss drugs. That name down by
15%. [music]
All-time highs coming into Tuesday,
pulling back this Tuesday morning,
negative by 0.4% on the S&P on the
Nasdaq 100 down by 0.9. You've seen the
enthusiasm to buy this market whenever
you get a pullback. Will this morning be
any different? All the upgrades we've
seen to price targets since this war
started all [music] connected
to the earning story. Barclays 7650
bullish on the profit outlook. HSBC
[music] 7650 earning strength. Ed
Yardeni on the program just earlier 8250
an earnings led melt up. And when we
spoke with him, he said he hasn't seen
anything like this, especially not in a
time where the economy has otherwise
been growing. The only time [music] he
sees moves like this is coming directly
out of a recession and that hasn't been
the case at least for the past few
years. How sustainable [music] is this?
Well, he talks about how the boomers are
filling the coffers of all sorts of
younger people paying their mortgages,
paying their bills and they're retiring
and having a lot of time and money to
spend. Look, it's coming out in the
numbers and we'll get that confirmation
on Thursday when we get retail [music]
sales. Are consumers still spending and
powering this growth?
>> to strip out the boomer stimulus checks
from the retail sales. I think that
that's Is that what you're going to say?
It's embedded. I think that that's
absolutely embedded. I mean, how many
people who live in certain areas and
have their phone bills paid by their
parents are just clearly [music]
>> Yeah, certain areas of Manhattan.
>> Yeah, boomers stimmy stimmy kids.
>> Yeah. Going to work in day. Very [music]
much so. Yeah.
>> Just finished yoga.
>> Yeah, yeah. You wondering if they've got
a job or not.
>> People who lunch, they do. Boomer
stimulus checks, right? 100%. Funding
[music] funding San Ambros. I mean
Clearly. Totally. Yes, that is
particular point. Anyway, but you know
It's a very New York conversation.
Forgive us. Okay, let's move on. Want to
get to South Korea and this move in the
Kospi. The Kospi overnight dropping as
much as 5% then pairing losses. This is
actually really really interesting. If
you're just joining us this morning,
welcome. So, you had a policy advisor,
let's call it,
to the president of South Korea come out
with a social media post talking about
tapping the [music] profits of AI
related companies
to offer a dividend to the people. Then
he walked it back, [music] diluted the
comments, got some clarity, etc., etc.
But the drop off in the equity market
was instructive. And so was the policy
proposal initially in the way that
people viewed [music] it because
is that a flavor of things to come if we
do go in a certain direction? Citizens
dividends [music]
from companies that are among the most
profitable in the world and that have
seen a moon [music] shot in terms of
their price performance in the stock
market, how much are a lot of
governments going to turn to those
companies and say, "All right, now it's
your turn to give back because the rest
of the economy is not growing very
quickly and people are unsatisfied with
how much prices are going up."
Regardless of whether it's coming from
semi-investments, whether regardless of
whether it's coming from the [music] war
in Iran, there is displeasure on the
part of consumers about how much prices
are going up. Will these be prime
victims number [music] one? And is this
something that isn't necessarily prime
victims, but just sort of an
inevitability that just [music] isn't
being priced into the valuations?
>> That's a political story further down
the road. Let's get to the market story
in the here and now. This move in crude,
the proposal from the Iranians totally
unacceptable. The ceasefire on life
support, crude about 107 this morning on
Brent, triple digits on WTI. You take
that 3% [music]
move in crude, you plug it into fixed
income, yields higher across the curve
throughout much of this morning. Twos
approaching 4%,
>> [music]
>> 10s through 440, 30s through 5% this
morning.
>> It's the inflation week that nobody
wants. We've got CPI today, we've got
PPI [music] tomorrow, and then retail
sales to give us a sense of the all of
that and how it's being bled into the
economy. This is a price that will surge
that much more if you start to see a
re-engagement of military action.
>> [music]
>> That's what I'm looking for. How much
are people looking for 120, 130 should
there be some sort of re-emergence of a
hot war?
That's going to be a story for a little
bit later in the program.
>> that's what the bar is being lowered.
>> Totally. Without a doubt, I'm with you.
Right there with you. And I push back at
all. Two hours away from the cash open
with your morning movers, [music] Danny
Burger has more. Hey, Danny. Hey, Don.
At the top of the hour, we got earnings
from Under Armour, a really big miss for
their EPS. Their guidance is between 8
and 12 cents. The expectation [music]
was for 23. So, on the positive side of
things, Under Armour says that the
tariff refund checks that are going to
be coming their way after the ruling
against AEFA is helping them. On the
downside, they say one, they've been
making more investments, so that's been
hurting them. Two, tariffs are already
high for them. And they cite the war in
Iran and the issue that has made for
them in supply chains. They say they're
taking a $35 million hit because of the
war in Iran. So, those shares getting
pummeled this morning, down nearly 13%.
Elsewhere, we got the official rejection
>> [music]
>> from eBay to GameStop. The company there
in a statement saying that the takeover
offer from GameStop is neither credible
nor attractive. It does set us up for a
potential proxy fight. So, there's a lot
of questions as to whether GameStop can
actually get this on considering they're
[music] less than a fourth of the market
cap of eBay. So, GameStop shares, you
see those falling 3 and 1/2%.
>> [music]
>> Finally, we also got earnings from Hims
& Hers. That's a big decline, two
companies are really getting punished
for missing saying down 15.2%.
[music] It's because of higher costs
tied to getting name brand weight loss
drugs. Before they were doing copycat
versions, they pivoted, they're using
the drugs from Novo Nordisk, from Eli
Lilly. A big restructuring cost tied to
that, about $33.5 million. So, shares
sink off the back of it, John. Hey,
[music] Danny, thank you. More from
Danny Birker in the next hour. Slightly
distracted here, new note from Max Kanto
over HSBC. I'll share some of the
details with you. Still Max overweight
equities.
>> [music]
>> We remain aggressively risk on in our
tactical asset allocation. Some reasons
for that, sentiment and positioning not
stretched yet, according to [music] Max.
The data, bottom-up strength in the US
almost unprecedented, he says. And this
on fixed income, [music]
this is the important piece. We remain
most underweight in treasuries.
The why? Upside risk to US growth could
be the next catalyst for fixed income.
This was a conversation you and I were
having. What is the ultimate driver of
what's happening here in fixed income?
Do you see it as a reflection [music] of
a better outlook for growth or a threat
to this equity market? Part of the
reason why you might be seeing such a
recovery in earnings that has been
[music] tremendous and unprecedented is
because of unprecedented growth. This is
the bull case. How many people are
looking ahead against the downside risk,
which would be a Treasury's bet? Very
few. Increasingly people are worried
about missing to the upside and they're
seeing that in earnings, they're seeing
that in the price action, which makes
sense. So you talk about the limiting
factor of Treasury [music] yields. At a
certain point they're an encouragement
to go into risk assets because they're
not a good hedge about whatever's going
to come next.
>> of Treasuries near the highs of the
year. [music] Looking across the yield
curve this morning. On our radar this
morning, a fresh look at the state of
inflation coming at 8:30 Eastern time.
Economists expecting CPI to rise 3.7%
in April as the war in Iran continues to
pressure global fuel and food prices.
Elsewhere, the UAE has reportedly
carried out military strikes on Iran.
According to the Wall Street Journal,
the attacks included a hit on a key
refinery in the Persian Gulf, the move
signaling a more aggressive front by the
Emirates to protect their economic
power. And finally, the Trump
administration adding another release of
emergency oil reserves in a bid to ease
higher energy prices. President Trump
also floating a suspension of the
federal gas tax.
A lot of people thought oil would go to
$250,
it's not. I mean, today it's at less
than $100. When this ends, you're going
to see it drop like a rock.
>> How long are you going to suspend
suspend that tax for?
Uh till it's appropriate. It's a small
percentage, but it's you know, it's
still money. Average gas prices recently
topping $4.50 a gallon for the first
time since 2022. Look, you're seeing an
increasing number of governments look to
fuel some sort of consumer subsidy as
they see energy prices go up. I would
just add that would cost three and a
half billion dollars to the United
States every single month that you do
remove that 18 cents of a tax from each
gallon of gasoline. Increasingly this is
going to become a fiscal problem. I feel
like I am beating a
a drum that nobody wants to listen to.
This is also helping yield stay higher
because of the fiscal response that
you're seeing around the world.
>> of a difference would it make? It would
make a difference, but how much? We've
had a move of about 150 to a gallon of
gas in this country on average. We're
talking about maybe removing a little
more than 18 cents from that 150
increase. And I saw a lot of feedback on
social media yesterday that if you want
to really do something about taxes,
remove the war tax of the last 2 months
and the increase we've seen, the 150
over the last 2 months because of this
war. Yeah, essentially, if you go buy an
$80 product and you get a $2 discount,
it's not going to make you feel better
about paying $78. That's essentially the
type of evaluations that people are
paying to fill up their gas tank.
>> tracking the work from the team just
yesterday as they were working through
who's done what. Georgia, Indiana, Utah
have temporarily waived taxes at a state
level. Lawmakers in Alabama, New York,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina are looking
at following care. We've seen gasoline
stock piles in this country on a
seasonal basis near 10-year lows. What
are we doing? Delaying the demand
destruction. For how much longer can you
delay the demand destruction? And are
you making it worse by not delaying the
demand destruction because you're
increasing or at least keeping demand
constant at a time of a supply
challenge, a supply crunch. This is the
economic challenge that no politician
wants to listen to.
>> Crude to triple digits on WTI so far
this morning. Investors, of course, are
waiting fresh inflation data due out in
just under 1 hour's time. The Bank of
America Institute Consumer Checkpoint
Survey writing, "With or without
gasoline, spending was strong in April,
posting the strongest growth in 3 years.
But we see signs of pressure building on
discretionary spending." Joining us now
to discuss David Tinsley of the Bank of
America Institute. David, welcome to the
program. That's notable. Before we get
to the details, I just want to deal with
the headline. Are you still seeing
really decent growth even away from just
gasoline spending?
Yeah, even away from gasoline spending,
our card data in April was up 4%
year-over-year. And in March, it was had
been up 3.6%.
So, and then even if you look at the
month-over-month increase, it was up
about 5% Sorry, 0.5% stripping out gas.
So, yes. Now, one caveat uh and it's
really early to tell is that the final
week of April, the data looked weaker.
So, you know, if you want to be a glass
half empty person, you might think that
we're beginning to see some weakness
creeping in, but that weekly data is so
volatile. Uh I wouldn't read too much
into it just yet. David, can you give us
a sense before we get to the glass half
empty cuz of course I want to go there
in a bit, but I am curious at how much
you're seeing dispersion increasing
between people who are in the upper
income brackets and people who are in
the lower income brackets. Is that
continuing to be the story or is that
overblown at this point?
No, it's still the story. I mean, in
terms of that the K shape on spending,
our higher income consumers in in our
data, their spending's up about 5% give
or take year-over-year. Lower income's
up about 2% year-over-year. That gap is
large.
It isn't totally widening further, but
it's still very large.
And when you look across the wages
in terms of the data we see, the payroll
coming into accounts,
amazingly really, higher income
consumers saw year-over-year pay growth
of 6% and the very top 5% saw over 10%
year-over-year growth. Whereas right at
the lower end, they're seeing wage
growth of about 1.5%. So, there's a
big big difference and that obviously is
driving some of this story about
subsidies, etc. that you were alluding
to before we came on. That's a
tremendous statistic. The idea that the
upper upper income, you're seeing up to
10% growth in the lower income, 1.6%
wage growth currently in the in the in
the backdrop. How much are you seeing
both sides of the equation start to
reduce their spending in the past week?
I understand it's volatile, but do you
see it across the board?
Well, when you look at discretionary,
which is really where we're, you know,
obviously focused on right now, the
expectation that someone some people may
be pulling back. I think where you see
it is in items like clothing. There's a
big discrepancy between clothing spend
from lower income and a higher income. I
think in travel, too, probably not so
surprising. You know, when people are
thinking about booking their vacations,
there's a distinction between higher
income, which is look, you know, pretty
solid, same as always, really, with
lower income, that looks quite soft. So,
I think, you know,
if you are this glass half empty person,
you're looking at some discrepancies in
in in those categories, and you're
looking at the end of the month, and
obviously that's feeding into your
concern. But we have to, you know, kind
of go back to the fact that the overall
data is solid. Jobs growth, not only in
the BLS data, but in our own in-house
estimate of payrolls growth, very solid.
So,
to some extent, maybe the show can stay
on the road
over the next sort of, you know, 3 to 6
months if the even if gasoline prices
stay high, but there will continue, I
think, to be these discrepancies. So,
David, just to build on that, and
finally, some people might point to the
tax refunds and say this is why you've
still got a bit of a bounce, offsetting
the pain at the pump and the issues with
the energy story. But my question to you
would be, what in your report can you
point to that gives you confidence about
the sustainability of this over the next
several months? Your final point.
50% of the tax refunds paid have not
been spent so far. They're actually
banked. So, that gives fuel in the tank
even for lower income consumers for a
number of months. And then at the higher
end, you've got the wage growth
situation. So, I think, you know,
it's not it's not all doom and gloom by
any means. We appreciate it, David.
Thank you, sir. David Tinsley there of
the Bank of America Institute. Someone
around the table might be glass half
empty. Maybe. Possibly. I think it's,
you know, a third empty, and I'm very
concerned about it. Look, I I People are
watching for signs that there's some
sort of problem, but I think that what
David Tinsley just said shows the issue
itself, which is essentially wage growth
increasing dramatically at the upper
ends and not really growing enough to
compensate for the increase in gasoline
at the lower end. This is a political
problem, even though it's not showing up
in the averages.
>> That's the best point. It's a political
problem. It's not a market problem yet.
And that's the conversation we might be
having in 46 minutes time. You're going
to see the pressure building for
consumers in America.
But as we've heard from Strategas
earlier in the last week or so, this is
not a consumer-driven equity market
rally. It's a tech-driven equity market
rally. And to the extent that it is
consumer-driven, it's driven by the
people who are profiting from some of
the tech gains in stock investments and
that are getting bigger wages. So, this
isn't necessarily hinged on those lower
income consumers continuing to spend.
>> It's a tech-driven sell-off this
morning. We're down by 0.8 on the Nasdaq
100. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief.
Hihara has more. Hi, Hihara. Hi, John.
SoftBank is in talks for a major data
center project in France, [music]
sources telling us here at Bloomberg.
The company is considering a
multi-billion-dollar
investment as part of SoftBank's
build-out of AI infrastructure.
The Trump administration is delaying a
plan to suspend [music] tariffs on beef,
according to the Wall Street Journal.
The president was poised to sign
executive orders on Monday to address
[music] supply issues, but pressure from
American farmers put the measure on ice.
And a US citizen infected with
hantavirus aboard a cruise ship is being
treated in a bio-containment unit in
[music] Nebraska, while another
symptomatic person is receiving care in
Atlanta. 15 others exposed to the virus
are in quarantine at the University
[music] of Nebraska. In total, 18
Americans have been repatriated from
that ship. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yohai in the next
hour. Up next on the program, headwinds
building for the US dollar.
There are two [music] factors that drive
currency values. One is related to
macroeconomic fundamentals, and the
second is fear. The dollar did
strengthen when the Iran war started,
fear, and now it's come back down,
macro. George Saravelos of Deutsche Bank
joins us next, live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
So, in 41 minutes [music] time, we get
inflation data in America. CPI later in
the week, we'll get retail sales. Just
how is consumer spending? Caught up with
Bank of America [music]
just moments ago. They put out their
consumer checkpoint
piece of research that I always enjoy
going through.
>> [music]
>> Card spending, spending growth strong in
April, according to the internal data
from BofA.
>> [music]
>> Total credit and debit card spending per
household rising 4.8% year-over-year.
That's up from 4.3 in [music] March.
Excluding gasoline, some of you want the
number, I'm sure. Card spending was
still a strong 4% year-over-year. That's
a pretty decent read on activity in
[music] this economy. People are still
spending, even when you strip out
inflationary aspects. And when you take
a look at who's spending, [music] you
can see that the upper income
individuals are continuing to have
plenty of cash, are seeing up to 10%
[music]
wage increases, and are able to spend
that money. That has been the story that
is powering this market.
>> Encouraged no doubt by equity markets at
all-time highs. As for those records
this morning, pulling back just a little
bit. We're down by third of 1% [music]
on the S&P and the NASDAQ down by 0.8.
Under Savannah's this morning, headwinds
building [music]
for the US dollar.
We are in a world where there are two
factors that drive currency values. One
is related to macroeconomic fundamentals
and the second is fear. Countries around
the world looking for a safe [music]
place to put their money. I mean, the
dollar did strengthen when the Iran war
started, fear, and now it's come back
down, macro.
>> [music]
>> So, here's the latest this morning, the
dollar fighting to hold on to war-driven
gains as investors turn to riskier
assets including equities. George
Saravelos, the global head of FX
research at Deutsche Bank joins us now
for more. George, welcome to the
program. Is it fair to say you've become
incrementally more bearish on the US
currency?
Oh, well, we've been bearish for the
last 12 to 18 months in terms of our
forecasts, but I think as the war as the
risk around the world looked to be
peaking,
we have been increasing confidence on on
the dollar trend downtrend
coming back. What's interesting now is
it's a lot more concentrated in dollar
China as opposed to euro dollar. So, if
you think about this time last year, all
the big moves were happening in the
euro, but now all the new lows in the
dollar are being made in China, which I
think is especially interesting given
the geopolitical backdrop. Well, George,
why do you think that is the case? Why
the switch? Why the turn?
So, I think there's two elements. One is
the Chinese authority side, which is now
openly allowing the currency to
strengthen a bit more and you can see
that by the behavior
of the fixings and and the onshore
versus offshore basis. So, there's a
very clear signal coming out of China.
Also, perhaps in anticipation of the
Trump Xi meeting that's coming in. Um
but of course these broader discussions
um around the role of the petrodollar,
what's going on uh in Iran, the
geopolitical shifts, uh I think these
have opened up um
a broader question in terms of the
geopolitical back balance of power in
the region uh and at the margin that is
helping China. The People's Bank of
China put out a report yesterday that
highlighted that global central banks
use of their swap lines reached a 2-year
high in the first quarter indicating
that people were increasingly going to
the Chinese renminbi as uh some sort of
reserve currency. Do you take this as a
signal or is this the PBOC trying to
fuel the narrative?
Well, I think it what's very interesting
is to look at the actual data and uh we
do have transactional data in terms of
volumes um and flows uh going on in the
interbank payment market uh in China. Uh
and what you saw actually in March is
some of these metrics made new highs. So
uh there is increased usage of CMI going
on uh in the background. It's very
difficult uh to um understand precisely
what type of flow is driving that, but I
would say in terms of the actual
evidence um we have uh from data uh CMI
usage has been rising uh since the start
of
uh of of the war in Iran. George, how
much is this getting skewed by payments
that are being made to Iran for
passageway or Iran trying to uh get some
liquidity through renminbi given the
fact that we're talking about the petro
yuan versus the dollar.
Uh it's very hard to understand that
type of flow at a micro level. Um as you
alluded to these um
these are things that are going on in
the background. Um but I think the the
takeaway I have is the fact now that the
CMI um is making new highs even in broad
trade weighted terms uh is really
telling me two things. One, the signal
and the policy intention out of the
Chinese
is is really to now allow a lot more CNY
strength than we were seeing this time
last year.
And and the second point is despite
really a very large negative terms of
trade shock, which should be impacting
China because it is a major energy and
and oil importer,
you're not really seeing that being
reflected in the currency which is
strengthening. And that's really sending
you a signal about broader flow shifts
taking place in the background aside
from the
terms of trade shock and and the higher
energy prices. George, it's interesting
we're talking about potential US dollar
weakness, but we're not talking about US
policy. We're talking about
international issues. When does US
policy begin to set the tone for the
next leg of this trade?
I think for sure US policy is relevant
and I'd break it down into monitoring
fiscal, which is the broader macro
variables we we focus on. On this front,
what's interesting is over the last
three to four months you've seen a
pretty dramatic repricing of the ECB
rate hiking cycle, the Bank of England,
even currencies out of Asia. But in the
US, in part perhaps because of the
transition to a new Fed chair, you have
not seen this move to pricing rate
hikes.
So I'd say
the US policy has almost been relevant
by its absence in terms of repricing
a more hawkish Fed.
I think it's the bar to start pricing
Fed hikes, which would be one dynamic
that would be a lot more positive for
the dollar is still high, especially
with the incoming chair
coming in over the next few months. So I
don't really expect that to come back.
And then the other aspect of US policy
is of course foreign and geopolitical
policy. And the big question mark is how
is the balance of power changed in the
Middle East and globally over the next
few months, both on the back of the
Trump-Xi meeting and of course the
Iranian war. And that does have the
potential to influence exchange rates.
George, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by and bringing us an update on
his views on the FX market. George
Saravelos there of Deutsche Bank. In the
next hour on Bloomberg Surveillance,
we'll catch up with Emily Roland [music]
of John Hancock Investment Management,
Angelo Zino of CFRA on this rip-roaring
rally in [music] tech stocks. Plus
Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley on
inflation data at 8:30 Eastern time and
the Flexport CEO, Ryan Petersen, the
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
We've seen perpetual market strength.
>> The eyes continue to be on earnings.
It's an earnings-momentum-driven market.
It will continue to be [music] an equity
story as we go forward.
>> Things are about as good as they've been
in a really long time. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. [music]
The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now and your scores the
price action looks like this. Equity
session lows down by 0.4% pulling back
from all-time highs and an aggressive
rip-roaring [music] rally in tech
turning into this down by just 0.9% on
the Nasdaq. On the Russell, down by 0.3.
Turn to the commodity market. This is
how things are shaping up this morning.
[music] Crude rallying. Brent up by 3%,
WTI as well. Triple digits on crude, 101
on WTI. Brent crude just short [music]
of 108. And in the bond market, yields
pushing higher. Two's out to 30's near
the highs of the year. A 30-year at 5%
heading into inflation data 29 minutes
away. CPI up next.
>> And it may be closer to 4% than 3% at
3.7% year-over-year headline CPI
expected in a median survey of
economists. A real question about how
the Fed deals with this and why we're
seeing inflation. Is this the one-time
impulse from higher energy prices
[music] and other commodity prices as a
result of the street of remits closure
or is this a sign of the strength in the
US economy that can allow [music] prices
to sustainably remain higher? Those are
the questions that could both support US
stocks while also causing a further
sell-off in bonds.
>> Let's stay with consumption. We know
what sentiment looks like right now,
rock bottom. Let's focus on spending.
What are people actually doing? The card
spending data coming out of Bank of
America indicating, [music]
stripping out gasoline, a move of 4%
year-over-year. That's decent spending
growth in [music] this economy. It's
been fueled by the wealth effect with
stock price increases also giving sense
of
of of complacency [music]
and and and a lot of a lot of assets to
spend. It's also being driven by the
K-shaped economy and the average, which
is US economy that seems to be closer to
boom time than it is to a recession.
[music] How many people have come on the
show and said that they expect
recession? How many people have said
that they think that it's a greater
likelihood of a downturn in economic
[music] growth than some sort of boom
case that's going to cause the S&P to go
to to surpass 8200. It really isn't that
many, which is a reason why increasingly
stocks can keep rallying despite [music]
the backdrop that we're hearing about
inflation.
>> It's difficult to make the recession
call when you've got deficits in this
country of 5-6%.
>> [music]
>> Right? It's difficult to make the
recession call when you've got a handful
of the richest companies on the planet
with really strong balance [music]
sheets, committed to spending hundreds
and hundreds of billions of dollars.
It's difficult to make that call. It's
even more difficult when you look at a
population of wealthy individuals who
have plenty [music] of discretionary
spending. What stood out to me was the
idea at the upper income level you're
seeing 6% wage growth
year-over-year as a result of a lot of
the top-tier jobs paying more on the
heels of productivity. That wage [music]
growth is not being sustained at the
lower end of the K, which is why the
sentiment surveys can indicate a very
different type of backdrop than the
overall spending average. [music]
>> And Sam, positive corporate America
capturing that story, Shake Shack can't
pass on the high cost. Stock hammered.
But as Chris Ferrone said on this
program,
basically, if you're looking to build an
investment thesis off the back of Shake
Shack earnings, you're probably not
getting the call [music] right in the
equity market right now because what's
driving the equity market is not Shake
Shack and the restaurant business, it's
the tech sector. [music] It also is a
subject of conversation last night at
dinner. Uh the cost of a burger at Shake
Shack
>> it took 2 hours. What happened? Casa
Bramo, there was a situation where the
kids [music] said that they were not
going to eat at Shake Shack for lunch
because it was just too much. It cost
$20 for a burger and fries.
>> And they weren't interested, so they
were going to other cheaper options
[music] next door. You see the demand
destruction in real time as a result of
the value proposition not meeting their
>> Fast food is no longer cheap food.
Exactly. [music] That's been the shift
in this country now for a number of
years. I'm telling you, it actually is a
really good barometer of inflation when
the kids come to you and they Who's next
door, by the way? Who's next door? A
really cheap Chinese place, which I Oh,
but that's what I was getting at,
preference. [laughter] That's the
preference. I'm really concerned.
Whatever, let's move on. Okay. We can
move on. I'm happy to move on. I was
just intrigued, other people might be
too. Equity futures on the S&P, session
lows were down by 0.4%. Coming up this
hour, Emily Roland of John Hancock with
stocks on a record-breaking run, Angelo
Zeno of CFRA on the risk of sentiment
swinging negative, and Mike Gapen of
Morgan Stanley reacting to the latest
inflation print. We begin this hour with
stocks inching lower as investors await
the latest inflation data. Emily Roland
of John Hancock writing, "We continue to
see equity struggling with valuations
for long-term returns, but earnings
growth is still a very viable return
driver." Emily joins us now for more.
Emily, welcome to the program. This is a
conversation we had with Ed Yardeni, who
by the way is at 8250 year-end on the
S&P. Outside of recoveries, post-GFC,
post-pandemic, when was the last time
earnings growth was this good?
Uh never. Uh I I I to your show every
day and I'm trying to come up with like
a new adjective to describe this
quarter's earnings growth. It's like
spectacular, stunning, shockingly good.
Like, it's been awesome. 28% earnings
growth versus an estimate of 13% coming
into the quarter, and we have 10 out of
11 sectors showing earnings beats, and
the magnitude is spectacular
coming from sectors in particular like
industrials and communication services.
So, it's not just technology that's
driving that earnings growth. Is 30%
earnings growth quarter after quarter
after quarter sustainable? Probably not.
But, we're doing our best to enjoy the
sort of nirvana that markets are
benefiting from a fundamental standpoint
today. Many people, as you know, Emily,
aren't enjoying it. They complain about
it, and that's been the story ever since
we exited GFC all the way up into the
right. This bull market has been hated.
They will point to concentration and
concentration risk. Do you believe
that's a problem still building?
Yeah, it absolutely is a problem, and
we're back to having the top 10 stocks
in the S&P 500 represent about 40% of
the index. That's not a healthy
environment, but I would point to
international markets abroad as having
even more of a concentration risk. Risk,
if you think of what's driving these
global markets right now, it's a
semiconductor super cycle for the
history books, and we're seeing emerging
markets really lead the charge there.
You look at spectacular earnings growth.
It's coming from emerging markets, but
the challenge is it's just a handful of
stocks, John. It's just about three
stocks that are driving that growth. So,
I look, for example, at emerging markets
earnings season. It's been great, but
the beats are actually really modest.
We're looking at about a 34% beat rate
in emerging market equities because of
that concentration. Another notable
thing is that semiconductors are
actually in value indices. So, there's
been a lot of confusion for investors
that are sort of focusing on styles
right now, and because the PE ratios are
so flattered by that forward-looking
earnings growth, we're actually seeing
semis really benefit value indices
overseas, which I think is a notable
dynamic for those of us that are doing
attribution analysis on a daily basis.
Emily, coming into this year, you were a
little bit cautious about the US economy
and potential growth in earnings among a
lot of these companies. How much have
you changed your outlook?
Well, one thing that's shifted for us,
Lisa, is this fiscal sugar rush that
we're going through right now. If you
you know, we've been thinking a lot
about sort of car analogies and this
earnings engine being important. So,
think about what's sort of fueling the
gas tank right now. Fiscal stimulus was
really sort of pumping on the brakes
last year. We had government layoffs. We
had a lack of fiscal support. More
broadly speaking, we had tariffs. Now,
this year the fiscal impulse is on.
You've got tariff refunds. You've got
lower corporate tax rates in the wake of
the one big beautiful bill. Consumer tax
refunds are elevated. You've got
elevated defense spending
right
now.
So,
this fiscal thrust right now that's
really resulting in an improvement in
the US economy.
While
the Fed is actually looking at sort
of tapping on the brakes here to prevent
inflation from running away. Emily, it's
always good to hear from you. Emily
Roland there of John Hancock. This Fed
is hesitant to tap the brakes. This Fed
is still somewhat committed to the next
move being an interest rate reduction,
which is why you've seen some pushback.
And I would say more than some pushback
beyond just the three that officially
dissented to the language in the
statement initially at the last Fed
meeting. We've seen a lot more than that
in the last few weeks.
>> Part of that is because there have been
sectors of the economy that have been
left behind. You have seen sectors,
entire sectors that have been left
behind, housing in particular. And
people point to that as a key component
in the this virtuous cycle of an
economic recovery. You need those jobs.
Home Depot, Lowe's, you hear that in
some of their earnings. People aren't
buying as many supplies or furniture,
say, at Restoration Hardware, another
member who came out and had some
colorful choice words a number of months
ago. A question here, though, about how
targeted they can be at a time where
inflation is running as hot as it is.
>> the home builder industry right now,
tough. Restaurant business, tough.
Passive discretionary, tough.
If those kind of sectors, industry
groups had bigger weightings on the S&P
500, the S&P would be down. But, that's
not the reality of the situation. You
have to take what you've got. We've got
18% of the S&P coming from chips.
And chips and the profit growth, these
are the ultimate profit centers right
now. These guys have been printing
money, and that's what's driving this
earnings growth. So, as the Federal
Reserve, how do you cater to the economy
while not creating a bubble in stocks
that are somewhat more economically
independent
based on the broader economy? It becomes
a conundrum because you have the risk of
inflating a bubble on one side of the of
the equation even as you try to cater to
another that isn't feeling so great, and
you're seeing that in sentiment, you're
seeing that in the K-shape, you're
seeing that in a whole other bunch of
metrics that are not factored in to the
S&P 500. There's always a risk of making
it too complicated. If you're a policy
maker, you have to focus on the
averages. And I mean central banker when
I say policy maker. If you want to focus
on disparity, that's a job of fiscal,
and that's a job of politicians. And I
think central bankers get themselves
into trouble when they start focusing on
the nuances and the disparity. Over to
you, Kevin Warsh. Let's see how he ties
that in.
>> in a tough spot.
>> He's in a tough spot, and he's been
given a little bit of leeway by Scott
Bessent, Treasury Secretary, who said
it's understandable why the Fed would
remain on hold for a longer period of
time. Nonetheless, down the pike, it
could become more complicated,
especially if inflation rates stay at
these levels.
>> Futures right now negative by 0.4% on
the S&P, near session lows. The data
some 20 minutes away. With an update on
news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief, Yuhaira has more. Hi, Yuhaira.
Hi, John.
Several CEOs have been invited to join
President Donald Trump on his trip to
China, including Apple's Tim Cook,
Tesla's Elon [music] Musk, and Citi's
Jane Fraser. One notable absence, Nvidia
CEO Jensen Huang, who was not invited
according to a White House official.
eBay rejecting an unsolicited proposal
from GameStop. The company saying the
offer is neither [music] credible nor
attractive. Earlier this month, GameStop
offered to buy the online marketplace
for around $56 billion. [music]
And in sports, the Oklahoma Oklahoma
City Thunder have swept back-to-back
series in their [music] push to become
repeat NBA champions. The Thunder
winning eight straight over the Suns and
Lakers. Meanwhile, in the East, the
Cleveland Cavaliers [music]
have tied their series against the
Detroit Pistons 2-2. The winner of that
series will take on the New York Knicks.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohai, thank you. We want that to drag
out, right?
Yeah. Everyone's exhausted. Injuries
mount, not that we want anyone injured.
No, I mean a bit of fatigue sets in.
>> Yes, well, I I would agree. Although,
the Knicks have done so well that, you
know, I'm just very happy. I'm actually
playing
>> You're bullish Knicks. You're on the
same team for once.
>> Uh for once we are. I mean, honestly,
how could you not be when you went past
the like cheering crowds, [music] the
excitement. Very cool.
Anne Marie
back on the program tomorrow. She'll
join us from China on the president's
visit to Beijing [music]
and that meet up, of course, with Xi
Jinping. And next on the program, the
Morning Killers Plus, we'll catch up
with Angelo Zeno of CFRA as the tech
rally pulls back just a little [music]
bit this morning. Equity futures down
across the board. The weight on the tape
in tech and the chip sector. The Nasdaq
this morning fairly negative, down by
almost 1% from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> I don't really recall anything like
this. It's been extraordinary. Now, it
looks as though we're going to have
something like an 18% year-over-year
increase in the first quarter. And for
the year as a whole, uh, they're
expecting 24%.
And that's definitely unprecedented. I
think earnings breadth is actually
improving. And if that's the case, that
should lead to an improvement in the
breadth of the market. At Jeff Tenney,
if you have any research, street high
price target on the S&P 500 now at 8250,
four-year run, the most bullish on the
street. Asked a simple question, outside
of recoveries, which is when typically
you see this aggressive improvement in
profits. So, take out GFC, [music]
take out post-pandemic, have you ever
seen earnings growth like this? His
words, "I don't really recall anything
like this. It's been extraordinary."
Leaning into the roaring 2020s [music]
with earnings growth that has exceeded
by double what people were expecting. It
was what? Expected to be 13% growth,
instead it was 26% [music]
growth. And it's coming from, yes,
narrow stocks. You are seeing about half
of that coming from the big [music] tech
names. At the same time, it is broader
than that, and that's reason why a lot
of people are getting optimistic.
>> What can stop this [music] rally? Is it
the data? The data drops later in about
14 minutes time at 8:30. We get CPI in
America. Look at these numbers.
>> [music]
>> The estimate for headline CPI, closer to
four at 3.7% for core, 2.7%. Just
getting further and further away from
two. Now, of course, this is not the
preferred gauge of the [music] Federal
Reserve, but the PCE read ain't a whole
lot better. When I see this, actually,
it's probably worse in terms of how
quickly [music] it's moving in the wrong
direction. When you like take a look at
break-even rates, you see it's creeping
higher to about 2.3%. [music]
Again, we're not talking about another
8, 9% inflation growth. Nonetheless,
people are looking at this and saying,
"How can the Fed do anything other than
be hawkish given that inflation is
moving in the wrong direction, and it's
with myriad influences. It's not just
energy costs."
>> Crude [music] contributing to it,
though. Look at energy this morning, up
by more than 3%. 107, call it 108 on
Brent at the moment. WTI triple digits
at 101. You've heard all the headlines
coming from the Middle East and from the
president, including the Oval Office
remarks just yesterday.
>> [music]
>> The proposal from Iran totally
unacceptable. The ceasefire on life
support. The blockade continues. That's
the constant here. The blockade
continues. The energy market is in a
deficit. Crude prices remain elevated,
when you have moves like this, numbers
like that, you'll see things like this
in fixed income. [music] 2s 10s 30s.
Yields up by three basis points at the
front end, now at 398. Get the wrong
kind of data in just a moment, we're
looking at 4% on [music] 2s. And if the
economy is strong, why would it go down
because of demand destruction? You add
to it influence that the government has
to try to get people to keep spending at
the same levels, whether it's a gas tax
removal holiday, or whether it's other
forms of subsidization, then all of a
sudden [music] you start to see how
inflation could be sustained.
>> 10s north of 4.45% on 30s. That means
equities near recession lows. Bit shaky
on the tech trade this morning. We'll
spend some time on that in a moment.
We're down by 0.4% on the S&P, on the
Nasdaq we're lower by 0.9. That's the
price action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Citi upgrading Lowe's
to a buy, citing [music] optimism in the
home improvement industry. That's rare.
We're up by 2% in the pre-market. Your
second call from Deutsche Bank raising
its price target on Intel, citing
reports of customer traction in its
foundry business. That stock has been
flying. It's down this morning. Negative
across the board ready for some of the
big chip players. Intel down by close
[music] to 5%, and finally Wells Fargo
raising its price target on Nvidia,
noting a favorable growth outlook.
That's another one slightly softer this
morning by 0.7.
>> [music]
>> Nasdaq futures are pulling back after a
record run for chip stocks. Angelo Zino
of CFRA writing sentiment could easily
swing negative. Near-term risks are
supply chain bottlenecks that could get
so severe that it hurts the rest of the
AI ecosystem. Angela joins us now for
more. Angela, welcome to the program.
We've seen chip players absolutely fly,
but the companies doing the spending,
Alphabet, Meta, Oracle, Microsoft,
negative for the year. Down on the year
with chip stocks up by some 70% just in
the last few months. Angela, at what
point do we test the patience of some of
the investors at the companies doing all
that spending?
Yeah, I mean, John, I think, you know,
we're kind of testing the patience right
now to to some extent. I mean, you know,
clearly we've seen this rotation in
terms of where investors are flocking to
and and they're flocking to where the
the wealth transfer has gone to, right?
It's gone from
really the hyperscalers, which had, you
know, just you know, just unbelievable
free cash flow, and then they've kind of
shifted that towards doing buybacks in
recent years and hiking, you know,
dividends in certain cases, and they're
now focusing more on, you know,
investing on the CapEx side of things.
You know, clearly, you know, the the
expectation, the hope is that as we kind
of, you know, look ahead over the next,
you know, 12, 18 months and even, you
know, further down the road, um it'll be
more than made up for through the higher
earnings potential as well as, you know,
eventually kind of trickle through on on
the free cash flow side. But right now,
sitting here today, um you know, clearly
all the excitement is where the the chip
makers are, and rightfully so. We've
kind of seen all these bottlenecks
really emerge here over the last couple
of months. And again, rightfully so,
because that's where the earnings power
is going to be over the next six to
eight quarters. But as far as, you know,
these cloud companies are concerned, I
mean, the business models are still
great. Um the backlogs are growing much
faster than I think most had
anticipated, especially Alphabet. I
mean, that's why that has been the big
winner. I mean, they've seen their
backlog essentially over the last 9
months
quadruple. So, they really been the
the key winner here and it really is a
testament to how important that that
stack is in controlling that stack.
Angelo, can you say the same thing about
Microsoft? The same thing about Meta?
You can't. You definitely can't say the
same thing about Meta. And I say as far
as Microsoft is concerned, I mean, you
haven't seen the type of backlog growth
on Microsoft side relative to Alphabet
or even, you know, Amazon a little bit
less so relative to Amazon.
You know, backlog growth over the last 9
months has been closer to about 70% or
so for Microsoft, but it's been highly
concentrated at this point time on
OpenAI. You kind of look at where
investors right now are really
gravitating to the excitement is on
Anthropic side. And you've seen the ARR
growth. Everybody knows this at this
point in time. You know, you've gotten
to a run rate of about, you know, north
of 30 billion going into Q2 versus
about 9 billion exiting last year or so.
There's proven AI monetization from that
company. And as a result, if you're more
concentrated towards Anthropic side like
Amazon is is
like an Alphabet is. I mean, the belief
is they signed a $200 billion
order with them. You're going to be a
you're going to get that upswing or you
know, just a better reward from that
side of things. So, Microsoft, you know,
is definitely in the penalty box at this
point in time. Angelo, we were talking
to Jonathan Gallop of Seaport Research
yesterday who noted that right now the
hyperscalers are not booking the cost of
some of their purchases of
semiconductors on their statements.
While semiconductors are booking the
profits from those same purchases at the
same time. Do you think that's a
potential liability say in a year when
some of the hyperscalers start having to
put the cost on their books at the time
that maybe some of the growth rates are
slowing down.
>> [sighs]
>> It depends, right? I mean, it it it it
all depends on whether or not the the
demand trickles through. I think you
kind of look at at where we are today.
Again, I mean, the last 6 months we
really seen some notable bookings
growth. You look at just the big three,
you'll look at Alphabet, you'll look at
Amazon, and you look at Microsoft, and
you've essentially seen a doubling in
the combined backlog growth of those
three companies over the last 6 months.
The expectation clearly is one, they're
going to continue to to see growth
right, because those
we're not going to stop this AI hype
train going on. At least from on the
enterprise side, at least that's the
level. And that that backlog is going to
translate to revenue. The revenue number
is much bigger than the cost number,
right? So, ultimately, you know, if if
you're a believer of this kind of
upswing that we're seeing in the kind of
the AI momentum on the revenue side,
even if we see growth rates start to
slow, it's such a big like much bigger
number than than the cost side that we
should continue to see some decent
earnings growth,
profitability on that side of things.
Now, do we see the free cash flow
contribution? Probably not over the next
kind of 18 to 24 months, because I
really do believe that any type of
upside that you see on the cash flow
from operations will get, you know,
directly reinvested into the CapEx spend
again, which is what's helping the
you know, the semi trade at this moment.
How closely, Angelo, are you watching
some of these bond auctions from the
hyperscalers as they all turn and hope
that debt investors will continue to
have the appetite to finance their
build-outs?
I mean, we're we're watching it we're
watching it closely. I mean, clearly you
want to see that appetite, you want to
see the favorable rates,
and you know, again, we'll we'll kind of
see how this plays out here in in the
coming quarters
and years. Not too concerned as far as
the the hyperscalers are concerned. I
mean, they're going to get favorable
terms, I think, almost regardless of the
the macro environment we're in. I think
some of those maybe tier two players,
some of those neo clouds that we're
talking about. I think neo clouds are
a really important play at this point in
time because you look at the core weaves
of the world, right? You look at the
bookings growth that they've seen.
They're almost kind of turning into some
of these large hyper scalers. We just
saw them nearly touch a hundred billion
in backlog this past quarter. But they
are more reliant in terms of, you know,
the debt markets at this point in time.
So I think it'll be a little bit more
interesting to kind of see what those
tier two players, how those how the neo
clouds look like here over the next
couple of quarters to see if we
potentially see any cracks in the
market. But at this point in time things
look pretty good.
Angelo, it's good to see you. As always,
Angelo Zino there of CFA.
The chart of semis is vertical. Just
vertical since the end of March. But I
think we have to remember that we
ignored a lot of good news for quite a
while for this sector. How many times
did we sit on the program saying, "Why
aren't the chips rallying? Why aren't
the chip stocks rallying? Look at all
this spending coming out of some of
these big tech companies." It just took
a while. Then we exploded since the end
of March.
>> Because the eight hundred billion
dollars of spending expected this year
is probably going to go directly to
those semiconductors. So why wouldn't
that be a complete positive, which is
why these stocks have rocketed higher
even though some people have tried to
poke holes. Everyone else says, "We
[music] don't care. Take a look at the
profits."
>> The Nasdaq futures down about one
percent. There is a pullback today
driven by chip stocks. We'll see if that
pullback gets bought [music]
later on in the session when we get the
cash open in about an hour from now.
Before we get there, CPI in America,
[music]
reaction with Michael Gap of Morgan
Stanley.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Inflation in America, that data crossing
in just a moment, seconds away. The
scores into it look like this. Equity
[music] futures pulling back by four
tenths of one percent on the S&P, on the
Nasdaq down by close to 1%. Setting the
tone for this inflation print,
>> [music]
>> this move in crude, WTI and Brent
pushing high today. Brent just short of
108, WTI at 101. And in the bond market,
yields close to the highs of the year,
5% on 30s, north of 440 on 10s. With the
inflation data, let's cross over to Mike
McKee
>> [music]
>> for more. Good morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. No surprises here.
The headline CPI month-over-month
increase 6/10 of a percent, as forecast
after a 9/10 move last month. The core
CPI year
on a month-over-month basis is up uh
4/10. That is stronger than was
expected. So, for the year, we have CPI
up 3.8%
and the core up 2.8%.
Uh that's the highest uh CPI for
year-over-year since 2022,
I believe. And it is also uh more than
anticipated. It's a jump of uh half a
percentage point. So, let me check on
what the uh latest breakdown of all the
numbers is. And uh I'll get back to you.
Mike McKee, thank you. Just had a 399
print on the two-year, just short of 4%.
We come back down to about 398. It's an
upside surprise on core. You'd expect
yields to be marginally higher. They are
up by three basis points on twos, up by
two on 10s. Now through 5% a little bit
earlier in the session, comfortably just
about through that number right now.
Coming off the back of this in the
equity market, equities just a little
bit lower. We're down by 4/10 of 1%. We
hold onto those session lows. Likewise
on the Nasdaq 100, but it's that upside
surprise on core that gets your
attention, Lisa, supporting where the
bond market was coming into this print.
>> Yeah, you're seeing it rise at the
fastest pace going back to 2022. Albeit
we've seen paces like this as recently
as 2025 in September last year. A
question here about whether you can
write this all off as simply the inputs
from energy. Well, core CPI suggesting
maybe that's not the case, and it's the
pace of increase that's moving in the
wrong direction. Again, PPI tomorrow be
very interesting and then retail sales
will give you a sense of how much
consumers are willing to absorb some of
these price increases.
>> harder and harder to be a dove on the
FOMC with numbers like that. You'd
expect them to build in the next month
or so depending on the duration of this
war and the energy shock, but inflation
is much much higher than it should have
been without this war. It's moving in
the wrong direction. You cannot point to
inflation expectations as remaining
where they were. They're not necessarily
flying away, but they're definitely
increasing and why shouldn't they
because right now we're talking about
the strongest earnings growth at
companies that are able to pass along
any kind of hit to their growth
based on higher prices to their
consumers. We'll see that again with PPI
about what those increases in prices for
the producers really are and frankly
we're seeing it move in the wrong
direction at an accelerating pace.
>> Notable that the positive surprise, not
so positive, the wrong kind of upside
surprise was actually on core today.
We'll get you a breakdown of that in
just a moment. Off the back of this
yields are higher by two basis points on
10s 443 47 as things stand. For those of
you interested, the intraday high of the
year was back in late March. That was
448. So we're just short of that right
now on 10s. On 30s at 5% on 2s
approaching four. Mike McKee, are you
still with us because you promised us a
second look at this. Where's that upside
surprise come from on core?
Well, right now it looks like it's
coming from a couple of different
things. Apparel prices up 6/10 of a
percent and the owner's equivalent rent
up half a percent. Now Michael Gapen can
explain more of this to you, but
basically that's a statistical quirk
because we didn't get an October read on
inflation because of the government
shutdown. So we've got basically a
catch-up right now.
Motor vehicle insurance contained.
That's been one that's been rising a lot
0.1% this time, but airline fares up
2.8% a little more than anticipated. So,
uh we've got a little broader inflation
than and than was thought in terms of
the
uh
headline rate uh that includes food and
gasoline. Food prices up half a percent.
Food at home up 7/10 of a percent and
gasoline prices up 5.4%. Nobody's going
to be surprised at that number. Michael
McKee, thank you, sir. If you're just
joining us, welcome to the program. I'll
give you the breakdown month over month
and then year over year. CPI coming in
month over month is 0.6. The estimate
0.6. For core on a month over month
reading, that comes in at 0.4. The
median estimate in our survey was 0.3.
That takes the year over year headline
and core headline year over year to
3.8%. That's above the 3.7 expected.
Core CPI year over year coming in at
2.8% above the 2.7 expected. Those
numbers are hard reading for an incoming
Fed chair who might otherwise have been
looking for cutting interest rates. You
can make an argument that 3% is okay,
but not 4%. That is a problem, child,
when it comes to inflation.
When you look at the pace of increase in
year over year core CPI, we're looking
at the biggest increase since August of
2022.
Again, we have to talk about not only
the fact that inflation is increasing,
but the pace of the increase and where
it's coming from. It is not necessarily
those gasoline prices.
>> That was not a good time. Michael Gapen
of Morgan Stanley joins us around the
table for more. Michael, good morning.
Good morning. What catches your eye
looking at this report? Well, there's
some hints of second round effects of
higher energy prices on core. So, those
airline numbers, the food at home
numbers,
um there's also kind of spillage into
headline through food cuz a lot of food
prices are related to transportation
costs. Right, so the concern here, the
assumption here, I think, from the Fed's
point of view and ours
is that oil prices tend to give you
headline effects, but not core effects.
And there's at least at the moment,
given the magnitude of the rise in
energy prices, some hints of those
second round effects in core. We need to
see if those persist. Um so to me that's
what catches my eyes. The 4/10 on core
was not a surprise to us. That's that's
where we were. And as Michael mentioned,
there is some catch-up effect here on
rents and owner's equivalent rent from
the government shutdown last fall. So
this number is artificially higher
because of that. Um but you still have
kind of a what I'll call a trifecta
here. You have energy prices pushing the
headline. We think we have the last
vestiges of tariff pass-through on core
inflation, core goods. You saw the
apparel number today. And then we had
that catch-up effect on shelter inside
of services. So three forces pushing
inflation in this particular CPI reading
higher this month.
>> If you were looking at the calendar
right now and I said to you the
following, can you just circle where you
see the peak for inflation this year?
Where on the calendar would that fall?
On a year-on-year rate, May or June. May
or June? We think we're at peak
pressures now.
If that's the case, then do you think
that the Fed should look through this?
With time, yes, but there are a number
of forces here. This is our fourth major
supply shock in in recent years. And
we've got evidence here of what I'll
call a mix. How how do you decide if
tariff price pass-through is ending when
you have some of these other
second-round effects from from energy
prices? So we think ultimately, yes,
they will be able to look through it,
but I'll say look through it with a long
lag. Like I think we think the Fed's on
the sideline for the rest of of this
year. What does it say that companies
are pretty easily able to pass along the
price increases that they're
experiencing to consumers? We've seen
that in profit margins. We've seen that
in earnings. And frankly, we're seeing
that in how quickly some of these price
increases are transmitted through things
like airline tickets. Yeah, so it's it's
not a surprise that energy prices get
passed through quickly. That has been
the historical record in the US. So
seeing airline fares up as much as they
were, we actually thought they'd be
higher this month. I'd say that is
pretty standard from a historical
perspective.
The tariff pass-through has taken
longer. It's taken almost a almost a
year. That said, when we look at some of
the granular data,
you know, non-labor costs reflect those
higher tariffs,
but firms were able to pass along a
greater increase in prices and build in
more margin. I think that speaks to
pricing power, still strong underlying
demand, but kind of an oligopolistic
corporate framework, right? There we've
got some very large kind of
quasi-monopoly type firms and
industries. Typically, they have better
pricing power. If you are just joining
us, welcome to the program. Slight
upside surprise on inflation data that
dropped about 8 minutes ago. Equity
futures recovering just a touch. We're
off the lows. We're still down by 1/3 of
1%. Bond yields off the highs. Mike
McKee standing by with a little bit more
detail. Mike, when you have a second and
third look at the detail, does it bring
just a little bit more comfort or not?
Uh it doesn't really bring a lot of
comfort. We do see some decline in
things that had been tariffed, some of
the uh things that uh had gone up in
price because of tariffs. And we don't
know whether it's because the tariffs
were thrown out or whether we've just
been past the peak here, but appliances
uh are down by 4/10 of a percent.
Household furnishings down by half a
percent. However, uh tomatoes, which is
one of the things that was uh
tariffed by the president coming from
Mexico for the winter, up 15%.
Coffee prices were up 2%. Uh so, we are
seeing some impact still from tariffs in
the overall numbers. But uh right now,
the important thing probably, and uh
I'll I'll throw this over to Michael as
well, is uh we got a half percent rise
in services. And that's the area where
people have been looking for a little
bit of a break given all the uh pressure
on goods prices. And uh so, services
coming in a little stronger than
anticipated.
>> Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley still
with us. Mike, is there some stickiness
to all of this?
There is, but I I I take some positive
sign from what Mike just said. I think
in in order of operations here, the
tariff pass-through to goods prices
should come first. So, having some hints
of that, I think is positive. So, if you
want to if you want to look forward with
some like a positive checklist, you need
to see that happen. Core goods prices
need to settle down in the next couple
of months.
Then, the headline pass-through from
uh gasoline prices and energy should
start to fade after that. The longer
story here will be, as Mike noted, what
happens with services. That's where the
stickiness has has been. Maybe that
starts behaving and then 2027 looks
better. There's a lot of ifs, mights, or
or buts in that statement. Um but, they
all have to hold up in order to get a
more favorable inflation outlook. Given
that we're seeing these kinds of
numbers, is there any universe where it
makes sense for the Federal Reserve to
still have an easing bias? Probably not.
I I think they told you in in April they
very easily could have changed that
language. It wasn't discrepancy about
doing it, it was more about timing. So,
I I do think all of the the inflation
data and the solid activity data
point to an adjustment in the language
in in June.
>> I got some pushback to that a little bit
earlier. I'm sure Drew Maddix might
won't mind me sharing that he was the
one who was pushing back against that.
There's just one line, in fact, just a
couple of words doing a lot of heavy
lifting in that statement. There is.
>> Right? But, that's
Do we move beyond that world with Kevin
Warsh? Ultimately, I think he would like
to, yes. I mean, he's obviously said the
Fed's footprint is too large and that
footprint includes communication in in a
Fed that he thinks is hyper talkative.
So, yes, if you're thinking, "Oh,
there's interest rate policy and there's
balance sheet policy, but then there's
also the forward guidance, that's a
tool." So, yes, this is a tool that you
can use. So, there's only a couple of
words in the statement, but it has large
implications.
>> Some serious power. Well, does it
though? And this is actually my push
back to that. The market's right now
pricing in a rate hike. So, it might be
doing some heavy lifting, but not really
cuz the market's saying, "We don't
believe you. We don't think that you'll
be able to hold on based on inflation
numbers like this." So, at what point
does the Fed have to confirm what the
market is saying in order to keep prices
actually somewhat subdued versus what
they
otherwise would be.
>> I'd suggest the descent to the language
in the statement was such widespread and
it was following the meeting as well
that it did a lot of the work for
Chairman Powell without him even really
needing to change a word in that
statement.
>> It opened the door to the potential for
a change in the bias. And we're talking
around the margins here, not necessarily
the actual rate hike, but this market
actually putting in pricing in some
chance of a rate hike. And does it have
to in order to keep inflation at least
not flying away at 2022 levels?
>> talked about all the ifs and buts that
need to take place over the next 12
months to get your car in 2027. I find
it so hard to talk about 2027.
>> I know. It's way out there.
>> It's crazy, but let's just play that
game just for a couple of minutes. What
would it take to get a hike from this
Fed?
So, you need this this number here on
core as you you were mentioning headline
is approaching four, but there's an
energy story there. Core is at least a a
more reasonably acceptable 2.8.
That needs to firm. The expectation
would be that that is moving above three
and maybe even towards three and a half
on a spot and forecast basis. If you get
that for whatever reason, a long
persistent oil price premium, inflation
expectations moving higher, animal
spirits on the demand side, then the
narrative changes. If there's this wide
gap between headline and core and core
is kind of hanging around three or less
and maybe nudging lower, it's a totally
different story. Mike, good to see you.
Mike Wilson there at Morgan Stanley.
Small upside surprise on CPI initially,
yields spiked high. They've come back.
Initially, equities held onto those
lows. Equities have bounced back down
just a third of 1% on the S&P. With an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief, Yahaira has more. Hi,
Yahaira. Hi, John. Recapping the data we
brought you just moments ago, April CPI
data coming in slightly higher than
expectations. [music] Headline prices
jumping 3.8% year-over-year. Core also
higher. Prices continue to rise as the
[music] war in Iran weighs on fuel and
food costs.
Speaking of, President Trump saying he
wants to suspend the federal gas tax of
18 cents per gallon [music]
until prices start to fall. According to
independent budget analysts, that would
cost the federal government about 3 and
1/2 billion dollars a month
>> [music]
>> in lost tax revenue. And speaking of, US
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Joint
Chiefs of Staff Dan Kaine are testifying
before [music] the House spending panel.
They're looking to justify the
Pentagon's record 1 and 1/2
trillion-dollar budget [music] request
while facing questions from lawmakers.
Hegseth and Kaine will also speak to a
Senate panel later this morning. [music]
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yahaira, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with a Flexport CEO Ryan
Petersen. With shippers facing the
biggest disruption in years,
>> [music]
>> plus Danny has your morning movers.
Activist investor Nelson Peltz reported
they're exploring a bid to take Wendy's
private. That stock is up in the
pre-market by close to 16% from New York
[music] City. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> The assumption here, I think, from the
Fed's point of view and ours
is that oil prices tend to give you
headline effects, but not core effects.
And there's at least at the moment,
given the magnitude of the rise in
energy prices, some hints of those
second-round effects in core. We need to
see if those persist. We'll see, and
we'll see when inflation peaks. Michael
Gapen there of Morgan Stanley looking
for that peak in May to June, [music]
the next couple of months. Next part of
this conversation with this man right
here, the JP Morgan boss, the Chase
chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, taking
place in 9:45 Eastern Time, so about an
hour from now. His response to what
we're seeing in this economy,
some of the issues
>> [music]
>> beyond just that, the opportunities in
AI and this massive build-out, and the
rally we've seen on Wall Street. [music]
All-time highs coming into Tuesday once
again. We set a series of records this
morning. Futures pulling back just a
little bit as we get these numbers on
the inflation front. CPI coming in just
a bit hotter than [music] expected this
morning on core, of all places. Yeah,
this is the reason why people are
concerned. [music] You're seeing an
acceleration in inflation core CPI
year-over-year increasing at the fastest
pace going back some four years. That's
giving pause to people who are looking
at potentially some [music] sort of
response from a Federal Reserve that
might have to shift away from an easing
bias. I mean, try to figure that one
out.
>> are some statistical quirks we can focus
on the details throughout this morning
on Bloomberg TV, but those headline
numbers
are not good reading for [music] an
incoming Fed chair, Kevin Warsh, who
might otherwise have been looking to
reduce interest rates. Equity futures
looking to bounce off the lows. We're
down by close to a third of 1% on the
S&P. [music] We're down by three
quarters on the Nasdaq. With an update
on the single names this morning, 41
minutes away from the cash open. Danny
Burger has more for you. Hey, Danny.
Hey, John. A big surge coming from
Wendy's this morning, up [music] nearly
16%, up 15 and a half. Uh the FT
reporting that Nelson Nelson Peltz is
try trying and looking at a potential
takeover, looking for outside investors.
Those include Middle Eastern investors,
apparently. Uh they already own about
16%. the fund already has someone on the
board of Wendy's Wendy's so an
acceleration of that. Elsewhere uh this
morning in terms of the movers on
reporting earnings a huge volatile
pre-market session for them at one point
they were up something like 8%. [music]
That's because they had a clean beat.
They also uh forecast expanding margins
to come but investors and analysts as
they're picking through the earnings
noted that specifically North America
was weak for them and that's concerning
shares falling [music] about 4 and 1/3%
finally ending uh things with another
earnings Hims and Hers a big
restructuring cost coming from them
shifting from generic GLP-1s into
branded name ones. It's been a big deal
for them but there a lot of costs that
come with that so shares down nearly 15%
John. Hey Donny thank you. Looking
forward to the program. Donny Burger
alongside Matt Miller [music] in about
10 minutes time. Global supply chains
facing prolonged disruption following
President Trump rejecting Iran's to like
to stop uh the Flexport CEO Ryan
Petersen writing the Strait of Hormuz
remains at a critical risk level. The
industry is still largely in
wait-and-see mode. Ryan joins us now for
more. Ryan welcome to the program. Out
of 10 and 10 would be globalization
Nirvana and one would be pandemic mess.
Just how bad are things right now?
Yeah hey great to uh great to see you
guys. Um well it depends what industry
you're talking about. I mean for the oil
industry this is about as worse as it's
gotten ever I think. I mean it we're
we're talking about 20% of the world's
oil has been cut off since since March
1st so I think on that scale you're
you're closer to a 10 eight maybe maybe
it's a nine or an eight. Um
for container shipping and air freight
it's not that big of a deal. The the the
the Strait of Hormuz is a cul-de-sac.
Container ships don't need to go in
there other than for local traffic.
Jebel Ali the port in Dubai is the ninth
largest port in the world but that's
largely cuz it's a big transshipment
hub. It's a choice. You can you can
transship those containers in a
different port and
um the Strait the the Red Sea which has
been cut off since December of 2023
for container shipping, that's already
been priced in. It's been going on.
Ships have been routing around Africa.
So, I think this is really an oil story
rather than a logistics story. How much
have prices increased to ship anything,
even if it's not through that particular
region?
Yeah, um, the the price if you it's
going to be a little misleading like
kind of the base price of a shipping a
container is only up to 10 or 15% but
there's all these other surcharges you
have war surcharges as well as fuel
surcharges. So, you're looking like from
Asia to Europe is up 50 to 60% even for
ocean freight. Um, air freight is close
to double um, because it's so fuel
driven. Um, yeah, so pretty big price
increases and you see price increases
even on the trans-Pacific which, you
know, ostensibly is not an impact but
it's a global market, global capacity,
etc. So, prices are up there as well.
And there questions around who wants to
insure this industry going forward if
there are these potential hotspots
around the world. Do you see a time when
prices will go back to where they were
before some of the hotspots really
emerged?
I mean, it all depends on what happens
on on the really on the battlefield
here. What happens is anybody's guess
and and right now we're in a ceasefire
um,
but it is I think by no means over. You
saw Trump reject Iran's demands
yesterday. Netanyahu said this is not
over. So, I would expect until it's
resolved then no, I don't think you're
going to see normal sea. I mean,
taking 20% of the world's oil supply off
the market is just a much bigger deal
than I feel, you know, seeing all-time
high in the equities markets. For me
it's I mean, it's maybe this is why I
don't invest in equities. It's like hard
for me to understand. So, Brian, some
people have come on and said it's not
that it doesn't matter, it just doesn't
matter yet because we have this massive
cushion and we're drawing down
inventories so much. When do you think
it might start to bite?
Yeah, I mean, again, like it just really
depends on how this plays out
in in the in the military landscape,
which is way outside, you know, way over
my pay grade to comment on, but
as long as as long as the street's
closed, I I just don't see how you can,
you know, price normalcy. And I was
driving by living in California, I saw
$9 gasoline
>> Crazy. at the gas station yesterday, so
That is bonkers. Ryan, thank you, sir.
Ryan Peterson there, the Flexport CEO. I
should have flipped the script,
shouldn't I? But I think we got the
picture. 10 is bad.
>> Things things things are bad. Yeah, 10
>> [clears throat]
>> usually is good, right? But this case,
you know, anyway, we're not really
>> not globalization nirvana.
>> Yeah, hell like it is today. It's $9 a
barrel, which think of there is 18 cents
less. That would make all the
difference.
>> That is not going to move the dial in
California.
>> about $9 gas.
>> California arguably might have bigger
problems when it comes to things like
energy. Oh, well, potentially, uh yes.
And given how exposed also they are to
the Asian markets and then some of the
extra taxes that are placed on a local
level. What he was saying though is
really important, which is costs are
going significantly higher not just in
transit through the Gulf, but just
globally because of higher energy costs.
You have to wonder also why a a ship
operator wouldn't kick up the cost. Who
wants to be uh someone operating the
ship right now given some of the stories
that you're hearing from the stranded uh
marines over in the in the
>> guys are pretty brave, but no,
I don't count me in.
And I'm not brave, so I'm not sure if
that helps you. I was counting on you to
go, you know, move our
you know, fertilizer through the Strait
of Hormuz.
>> of those shipping trips?
>> No, absolutely not through the Strait of
Hormuz. Multiple weeks? No, never mind
the Strait of Hormuz. Just in general. I
just mean, you know, around the Cape of
Good Hope and I guess you circle it, it
would be really bad.
>> That would be your excuse.
No special program. And you know who
would? Annemarie. Without a doubt.
>> so? Oh, yeah. Awful awful Annemarie's
the trip of getting
Honestly, Annemarie would be on that
ship through the Strait of Hormuz.
>> I would have No questions asked.
>> I would have been on the cruise going to
like explore different areas in
Patagonia. I totally would have been on
that. And then getting hantavirus, I'd
be that person.
>> I just wouldn't go on a cruise.
>> Yeah, well, I understand that, but you'd
go certain places, anyway. We've My
position on that is well known. Okay?
Tomorrow, Anne Marie is going to be on
the program, back with us. She'll be in
Asia, in China specifically, to bring
you the details of that meeting between
President Trump [music] and President
Xi. Equity futures look to recover this
morning. We'll get you the breakdown of
everything taking place today, in
[music] chips and inflation, and a
preview of tomorrow when we catch up
with Seema Shah, Principal Asset
Management. Eric Johnson of Canaccord
Genuity, Edward Fishman of the [music]
Council on Foreign Relations, and
Victoria Fernandez of Crossmark. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.